---
source_pdf: 28-inf01.pdf
regulation: SAFETY_REFERENCE
converter: paddleocr-PP-OCRv6
---

# 28-inf01


## Page 1

1
DRAFT SHORT TERM MODIFICATIONS OF
Informal document No.1
ECE- R21 – INTERIOR FITTINGS -
28th session of GRSP
Agenda item 2.4 
INTRODUCTION
The following pages contain the proposals that were made by the participants
of the ECE- R21 ad-hoc working group during:
1. The first meeting which was held in Madrid (03 – 04 February 2000)
2. The second meeting which was held in Cologne (17 - 18 May 2000)
3. The third meeting which was held in Madrid (13 – 14 September 2000)
The group reported to GRSP during the 27th session, 8-12 May 2000, about the
results of the first meeting of the ad–hoc group with an informal document. 
The following draft proposal contains the results after the last meeting in
Madrid. The result of this meeting can be described as follows:
1. 
Clarification of the scope: Vehicles of category M1 is introduced
instead “passenger cars” / Incorporation of a new item: “Power operated
window winders etc.”; agreed by the majority of the group
2.
Extension of the definitions; agreed by the majority of the group.
3.
Incorporation of a dynamic determined head impact zone; the head impact
zone may be determined according to the classic static procedure 
defined in Annex 1 or according to a new dynamic procedure described in
Annex 8. Agreed in principle by the majority of the group.
4.
Power operated window etc.
The text of the Directive 74/60/EEC, last amended by Directive 
2000/4/EC has been incorporated in the draft proposal. In addition the 
text has been modified to adapt the requirements to the technical 
progress.
The ad- hoc group decided, that OICA should check and if necessary to 
improve the text of „power operated window, etc.“ because the text of 
the Directive including the amendments were discussed with the 
German vehicle manufacturers and some component manufacturers only and 
should be discussed with all members of OICA.
5. 
Leave soft material in place
The group agreed to modify the text of the existing requirements and to 
introduce the head impact test procedure as a tool to find out if a soft
material arrangement can protect hard edges or not.


## Page 2

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 2
2
6. 
Window winder requirements
The ad –hoc group recommend to amend a new explanatory note:
Explanatory note to paragraph 5.3.2.2.:
With new modern doors designs, window winders handle is sometimes 
surrounded by the form of the door panel, making it impossible for an 
occupant to touch it with his knees. It is up to the Technical 
Services to decide in this cases with the agreement of the manufacturer 
to carry out the push test as described or not. 
7. 
Explanatory notes
The group recommend GRSP to incorporate the explanatory notes at the 
end of each paragraph where they belong to.
If a explanatory note belongs to more than one paragraph, it should be 
repeated to each paragraph of the Regulation.
8. 
Establishing of gaps and grilles requirements (OICA)
Not discussed in Madrid II; further discussion necessary.
9. 
Head impact test into the deployed airbag (OICA)
Agreed by:
F, I, E, NL, OICA
Disagreed by S, D, UK with serious reservation
Further discussion necessary.
To-do list:
a) 
Arrangement of the final discussion of paragraphs 5.1.1
and annex 8
b)
Further discussion and decision of gaps and grilles requirements c)
Further discussion and decision of head impact test into the 
deployed airbag
d) 
Waiting on OICA result of the check of the amended “Directive”- text 
of “ Power operated window etc.”
The chairmans of the ECE-R21 ad- hoc group will work out an improved document
on the basis of these Informal Document No. 1, which will be presented to the
secretariat of GRSP (Mr. Ramos) in time that he can arrange an official
document for the next GRSP- Meeting in May 2001.
The members of GRSP should do all further discussions and decisions.
Explanation of the used letters:
The existing text of ECE- R21 is written with Courier New or Courier; all
modifications are marked with fat letters.
The text of the Directive 2000/4/EC (power operated window e.t.c.) is written
in colour “ blue” and the modifications of the text of the Directive in
colour “red”.
Remarks, made during the Madrid II meeting are written down in “ Arial 12”
letters.


## Page 3

3
Distr.
GENERAL
TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/..
XX October 2000
ENGLISH ONLY
ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR EUROPE
INLAND TRANSPORT COMMITTEE
Working Party on the Construction of Vehicles
Working Party on Passive Safety (GRSP)
(Twenty- eight session, 27 - 30 November 2000,
agenda item 1)
PROPOSAL FOR DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION NO. 21
(Interior fittings)
Transmitted by the Experts from Spain and Germany
Note:  The text reproduced below has been prepared by the experts from Spain
and Germany on the basis of several proposals which has been discussed by
members of a special ECE R21 ad hoc working group. These group has been
established and agreed by GRSP during the twenty-sixth session, 29 November -
3 December 1999. The members of the ad hoc working group represent experts of
E, I, D, F, NL, S, UK, USA, Japan, JASIC, CLEPA and OICA.
The following draft contains the proposals to amend, as a first target and as
a short term step, the requirements of the ECE- Regulation No.21, Corrigendum
1 to the 01 series of amendments to Regulation No.21 (TRANS/WP29/713 - 13
April 2000 -).
It is planned by GRSP, to prepare a proposal towards a second target, to
create a global harmonised Regulation (which could be ready not before 2003)
Note: This document is distributed to the Experts on Passive Safety only.
GE.00-XXXXX


## Page 4

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 4
4
PROPOSAL
Paragraph 1. Scope, amend to read:
This Regulation applies to the interior fittings of vehicles of category M1
with regard to:
1. 1. the interior parts of the passenger compartment other than the rear-view 
mirror or mirrors;
1. 2. the arrangement of the controls;
1. 3. the roof or opening roof, and
1. 4. the seat-back and the rear parts of seats.
1. 5. Power-operated windows, roof panel and partition systems
Justification:
1. Deletion of the term: "passenger cars" and incorporation of the wording
"vehicles of category M1" which is well defined in the R.E.3- document and
which corresponds with the definition of the vehicle categories used in the
Directives 70/156/EEC, Annex II, section A.
2. Change of subparagraph 1.3 "the roof or sliding roof", to bring REG 21 in
line with the text of the Directive 74/60/EEC, "Interior fittings"
4.  New subparagraph 1.5 incorporating of requirements for power operated
windows, roof panel and partition systems
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraph 2 Definitions
Paragraph 2.1, unchanged
Paragraph 2.2. amend to read:
2. 2. "vehicle type"
with regard to the interior fittings of the passenger compartment (other than
the rear view mirrors; the arrangement of controls, the roof or sliding roof,
the back rest and rear part of the seats) means power-driven vehicles vehicles
of category M1 which do not differ in such essential respects as:
2. 2. 1. the lines and constituent materials of the bodywork of the passenger
compartment;
2. 2. 2. the arrangement of the controls;
2. 2. 3., (added as new paragraph)
the performance of the protective system, if the reference zone according to
Annex 8(dynamic evaluation) is chosen by the applicant.
Remark: Vehicles that differ only in the performance of the protective
system(s) belong to the same vehicle type if they offer an equal or better
protection for the occupants compared with the system or vehicle submitted to
the technical service responsible for conducting the approval tests.


## Page 5

5
Justification:
1. Deletion of the phrases of paragraph 2.2 which stand in brackets, see also
paragraph 1, Scope.
2.Consequences after incorporation of the term "vehicles of category M1"
and
3.Introduction of new requirements in the reference zone, keeping in mind, that
it is the choice of the vehicle manufacturer as applicant to decide to use the
existing requirements (determination of reference zone, determination of the
head impact points within the head impact area, carrying out head impact tests
to the instrument panel, check of radii requirements etc.)
or
on a voluntary base, to use the new requirements according to annex 8. In this
case the protection performance of the vehicle equipped with a restraint system
shall show, that in case of a frontal impact (details see annex 8) no head
impact to the instrument panel occurs or a dynamic determined reference zone
can be described.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraph 2. 3. "reference zone", amended as:
"reference zone" means the head-impact zone as defined in annex 1 to this
Regulation. Alternatively and at the choice of the applicant and based on
occupants protected by the restraint systems installed in the vehicle type it
is permitted to define a reference zone according to annex 8 of this
Regulation. In both cases the following areas are excepted:
Paragraphs 2.3.1., 2.3.2 and 2.3.3, (unchanged)
Justification:
Consequences of the introduction of alternative test requirements according to
annex 8.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraphs 2.4 to 2.9 unchanged
Insert new definitions as paragraphs 2.10 to 2.17
2.10."Protective system" means interior fittings and devices intended to
restrain the occupants. (see Definition paragraph 2.1. of ECE Regulation 94).
2.11. "Type of a protective system", means a category of protective devices
which do not differ in such essential respects as:
2.11.1. their technology
2.11.2. their geometry
2.11.3. their constituent materials.


## Page 6

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 6
6
Remark: The ad- hoc group decided, that OICA should check and if necessary to
improve the text of „power operated window, e.t.c. because the text of the
Directive including the red amendments were discussed with the German vehicle
manufacturers and some component manufacturers only and should be
discussed with all members of OICA.
2.12. "Power-operated windows" means windows which are closed by power
supply of the vehicle.
2.13. "Power-operated roof-panel systems" means movable panels in the
vehicle roof which are closed by power supply of the vehicle by either a
sliding and / or tilting motion, and which do not include convertible top
systems.
2.14. "Power-operated partition systems" means systems which divide a
passenger car compartment into at least two sections and which are closed
using the power supply of the vehicle.
2.15. "Opening" is the maximum unobstructed aperture between the upper
edge or the leading edge, depending on the closing direction, of a power-
operated window or partition or roof panel and the vehicle structure
which forms the boundary of the window, partition or roof panel, when
viewed from the interior of the vehicle or, in the case of partition
system, from the rear part of the passenger compartment.
To measure an opening, a cylindrical test rod shall (without exerting
force) be placed through it normally perpendicular to the edge (OICA
????) and perpendicular to the closing direction of the window, roof
panel or partition as shown in Annex 9,Figure 1, from the interior of the
vehicle or, as applicable, from the rear part of passenger compartment.
2.16. "(Ignition) key" means a specific device that operates the locking system
of a vehicle which is built in a way that it can only be operated by this
device (key). This definition explicitly includes keyless entry- and/or drive
authorisation systems (OICA,?????)
2.17. inserted in Madrid II (agreed in the Cologne- meeting):
2.17. "Airbag" means a device installed to supplement safety belts and
restraint systems in power driven vehicles, i. e. systems which in the event
o a severe impact effecting the vehicle automatically deploy a flexible
structure intented to limit, by compression of the gas contained within it,
the gravity of the contacts of one or more parts of an occupant of the
vehicle with the interior of the passenger compartment.


## Page 7

7
Justification:
New definitions related to the proposed test procedure according to annex 8
and the incorporation of definitions related to power- operated window, roof
opening and partition systems ( printed with colour blue) and modification of
that text ( printed in colour red) taking into account the adaptation of the
requirements to the technical progress.
The draft incorporates tests with airbag systems. The definition explains
what an airbag system is. The definition is in line with ECE- Regulation 94.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Insertion of the explanatory notes in the text of ECE- Regulation No.21:
Justification:
The below prescribed explanatory notes will be used since more than 20 years
and should be well known by all member states. It seems helpful to
incorporate these text as state of the interpretations directly in ECE-
Regulation No. 21.
REMARK: The notes should be incorporated at the end of each paragraph where
they belong to.
If a explanatory note belongs to more than one paragraph, it should be repeated
to each paragraph of the Regulation.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Paragraph 2. 3.
The reference zone is outlined without rear view mirror. The energy-
dissipation test is accomplished without the rear view mirror. The pendulum
shall not impact the mirror mounting.
Paragraphs 2. 3. and 2. 3. 1.
The exempted area behind the steering wheel as defined by these paragraphs is
also valid for the head impact area of the front passengers.
In the case of adjustable steering wheels the zone finally exempted is
reduced to the common area of the exempted zones for each of the driving
positions which the steering wheel may assume.
In the case where it is possible to choose between various steering wheels
the exempted zone is determined by the use of the least favourable
steering wheel having the smallest diameter.
Paragraph 2. 4.
The level of the instrument panel extends over the entire width of the
passenger compartment and is defined by the rearmost points of contact of a
vertical line with the surface of the instrument panel when the line is moved
across the width of the vehicle. where two or more points of contact
occur simultaneously, the lower point of contact shall be used to establish
the level of the instrument panel. In the case of consoles, if it is not
possible to determine the level of the instrument panel by reference to the
points of contact of a vertical line the level of the instrument panel shall
be where a horizontal line 25. 4 mm above the "H" point of the front seats
intersects the console.


## Page 8

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 8
8
Paragraph 2. 5. At the vehicle sides the roof shall commence at the upper
edge of the door aperture. In the normal case, the lateral roof limits will
be represented
by the contours formed by the bottom edge (lateral view) of the remaining
body when the door has been opened. In the case of windows, the
lateral limitation of the roof will be the continuous transparent line
(penetration point of the lateral window panes). At the posts, the lateral
roof limitation will pass through the connecting line between the transparent
lines. The definition of Paragraph 2. 5. is also valid for any opening for
the roof, in the closed position, of a vehicle as defined in paragraphs 2. 7.
or 2. 8. For measuring purposes, downward facing flanges shall be ignored.
These will be considered as forming part of the vehicle sidewall.
Paragraph 2. 7.
A non-removable rear window is understood to be a rigid structural element.
Cars with non-removable rear windows of rigid material are considered to be
cars with opening roofs as defined under paragraph 2. 8.
Paragraph 5. 1. 1.
A sharp edge is an edge of a rigid material having a radius of curvature of
less than 2. 5 mm except in the case of projections of less than 3. 2 mm,
measured from the panel. In this case, the minimum radius of curvature shall
not apply provided the height of the projection is not more than half
its width and its edges are blunted.
Grills are considered to comply with the regulations if they meet the minimum
requirements of the following table:


## Page 9

9
Paragraph 5. 1. 2.
During the test, it is determined whether parts within the impact zone used
for reinforcement may be displaced or protrude so as to increase the
hazards to passengers or the severity of injuries.
Paragraph 5. 1. 3.
These two concepts (level and lower edge of the instrument panel) may be
distinct. However, this point is included in paragraph 5. 1. (... above the
level of the instrument panel ...) and, therefore is applicable only where
these two concepts are combined. In the case where the two concepts are
not combined, i. e. where the bottom edge of the instrument panel is located
below the level of the instrument panel, it will be considered under
paragraph 5. 3. 2. 1. by reference to paragraph 5. 8.
Paragraph 5. 1. 4.
If a pull handle or knob has a width dimension equal to or more than 50 mm
and is located in a zone such that if it were less than 50 mm in width
the maximum projection would be determined using the headform measuring
apparatus with annex 6, paragraph 2. , the maximum projection shall be
determined in accordance with annex 6, paragraph 1. , i. e. by using a 165 mm
diameter sphere and determining the maximum variation in height of the
"y" axis.
The cross-sectional area shall be measured in a plane parallel to the surface
on which the component is mounted.
Paragraph 5. 1. 5.
Paragraphs 5. 1. 4. and 5. 1. 5. complement each other; the first sentence of
paragraph 5. 1. 5. (i. e. a force of 37. 8 daN for retraction or detachment)
is applied and then paragraph 5. 1. 4. in case of retraction up to a
protrusion between 3. 2 and 9. 5 mm or, in the case of detachment, the two
last sentences of paragraph 5. 1. 5. (the cross-section area is measured
before the force is applied). However, if, under practical circumstances
paragraph


## Page 10

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 10
10
5. 1. 4. must be applied (retraction to under 9. 5 mm and over 3. 2 mm) it
could be more convenient, at the manufacturer' s discretion, to verify the
specifications of paragraph 5. 1. 4. before applying the force of 37. 8 daN
specified in paragraph 5. 1. 5.
Paragraph 5. 1. 6.
Since, in the presence of soft materials, the requirements apply only to the
rigid support, the projection is measured for the rigid support only.
The shore hardness measurement is made on samples of the test subject itself.
where, due to the condition of the material, it is impossible to carry
out a hardness measurement by the shore A procedure, comparable measurements
shall be used for evaluation.
Paragraph 5. 2. 1.
Foot pedals, their arms and immediate pivotal mechanism, but not the
surrounding support metal, shall be excluded from consideration.
The ignition key is deemed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if
the protruding part of its shank consists of a material of between 60 and
80 shore A hardness and a thickness of at least 5 mm, or is covered with such
a material of 2 mm minimum thickness on all surfaces.
Paragraph 5. 2. 2.
The criterion to determine whether the parking brake control can be contacted
is the use of:
the simulated head specified in annex 1 , if the control is located above or
on the level of the instrument panel (to be tested in accordance with
paragraph 5. 1. and within the impact zone);
the knee specified in annex 7 if the control element is located below the
level of the instrument panel (in this case the control lever is tested in
accordance with paragraph 5. 3. 2. 3. ).
Paragraph 5. 2. 3.
The technical specifications listed in paragraph 5. 2. 3. apply also to
shelves and those parts of consoles below the level of the instrument panel
located between the front seats, provided that these are located in front of
the "H" point. If a cavity is closed it will be treated as a glove
compartment and not be subject to these specifications.


## Page 11

11
Paragraph 5. 2. 3. 1.
The dimensions specified refer to the surface before the addition of material
of less than 50 shore A hardness (see paragraph 5. 2. 4. ).
Energy-dissipating tests shall be conducted in the spirit of annex 4 .
Paragraph 5. 2. 3. 2.
If a shelf becomes detached or breaks up, no dangerous features must result;
this applies not only to the rim but also to other edges facing into
the passenger compartment as a result of the applied force.
The strongest part of the shelf shall be considered to be adjacent to a
fixture. Also, "substantially distorted" shall mean that, under the effect of
the applied force, the deflection of the shelf, measured from the initial
point of contact with the test cylinder, must be a fold or a deformation
visible to the naked eye. Elastic deformation shall be admissible.
The length of the test cylinder shall be at least 50 mm.
Paragraph 5. 3.
"Other parts" shall include such parts as window catches, seat belt upper
anchorages and other parts located in the foot space and at the door
side, unless these parts have been treated previously or are exempted in the
text.
Paragraph 5. 3. 2.
The space between the forward bulkhead and the instrument panel which is
located higher than the bottom edge of the instrument panel is not
subject to the specifications of paragraph 5. 3.
Paragraph 5. 3. 2. 1.
The 3. 2 mm radius applies to all contactable components covered by paragraph
5. 3. when considered in all positions of use.
As exceptions, glove compartments shall be considered only in the closed
position; seat belts will normally be considered only in the fastened
position, but any part which has a fixed stowage position shall also comply
with the 3. 2 mm radius requirement in that stowed position.
Paragraph 5. 3. 2. 2.
The reference surface is found by application of the device described in
annex 6, paragraph 2., with a force of 2 daN. Where this is not possible,
the method described in annex 6, paragraph 1., shall be used with a force of
2 daN. The evaluation of dangerous projections is subject to the discretion
of the authority responsible for the tests.
The force of 37. 8 daN is applied even if the original projection is less
than 35 or 25 mm, as applicable. The projection is measured under the applied
load. The horizontal, longitudinal force of 37. 8 daN is normally applied by
means of a flat-ended ram of not more than 50 mm diameter but, where
this is not possible, an equivalent method may be used; for instance, by
removing obstacles.
(Insertion of a new explanatory note to paragraph 5.3.2.2.):
With new modern doors designs, window winders handle is sometimes surrounded
by the form of the door panel, making it impossible for an occupant to touch
it with his knees. It is up to the Technical Services to decide in this cases
with the agreement of the manufacturer to carry out the push test as
described or not. 
Paragraph 5. 3. 2. 3.
The furthest projecting part, in the case of a gear lever, is that part of
the grip or knob first contacted by a vertical transverse plane moved in a
longitudinal, horizontal direction. If any part of a gear lever or handbrake
lies above the "H" point level, that lever will have to be considered as if
the whole of it were above the "H" point level.


## Page 12

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 12
12
Paragraph 5. 3. 4.
Where the horizontal plane( s) passing through the "H" point of the lowest
front and rear seats do not coincide, then a vertical plane perpendicular
to the vehicle' s longitudinal axis shall be determined, passing through the
front seat "H" point. The exempted zone will then be considered
separately for both the front and rear passenger compartments, relative to
their respective "H" point and up to the vertical plane defined above.
Paragraph 5. 3. 4. 1.
Movable sun visors shall be considered in all positions of use. The frames of
sun visors shall not be regarded as rigid supports (see para. 5. 3. 5. ).
Paragraph 5. 4.
When the roof is tested to measure those protrusions and parts which can be
contacted by a ball having a diameter of 165 mm, the roof lining must
be removed. When evaluating the specified radii the proportions and
properties attributable to the materials of the roof lining shall be taken
into
consideration. The roof testing area shall extend in front of and above the
transverse plane limited by the torso reference line of the manikin placed
on the rearmost seat.
Paragraph 5. 4. 2. 1.
(See para. 5. 1. 1. for definition of "sharp edges").
The downward projection shall be measured normal to the roof in accordance
with annex 6, paragraph 1.
The width of the projecting part shall be measured at right angles to the
line of the projection. In particular the rigid roof sticks or ribs shall not
project away from the inner surface of the roof more than 19 mm.
Paragraph 5. 5.
Any roof ribs on opening roofs must meet paragraph 5. 4. if they are
contactable by a 165 mm diameter sphere;
Paragraphs 5. 5. 1. 2. , 5. 5. 1. 2. 1. , 5. 5. 1. 2. 2.
The opening and operating devices when in a position of rest and with the
roof closed must meet all of the specified conditions.
Paragraph 5. 5. 1. 2. 3.
The force of 37. 8 daN is applied even if the original projection is 25 mm or
less. The projection is measured under the applied load.
The force of 37. 8 daN applied in the direction of impact defined in annex 4
as the tangent to the trajectory of the headform is normally applied by
means of a flat-ended ram of not more than 50 mm diameter, but where this is
not possible an equivalent method may be used; for instance, by
removing obstacles. The "position of rest" means the position of the
operating device when it is in the locked position.
Paragraph 5. 6.
The rod system of convertible tops does not represent a roll-over bar.
Paragraph 5. 6. 1.


## Page 13

13
The top part of the windscreen frame starts above the transparent contour of
the windscreen.
Paragraph 5. 7. 1. 1.
See paragraph 5. 1. 1. for definition of "sharp edge".
Paragraph 5. 7. 1. 2.
In defining the head impact zone of the back of the front seats any structure
necessary to support the seat back shall be considered as a
component of this seat back.
Paragraph 5. 7. 1. 2. 3.
The padding of the seat frame structure shall also avoid dangerous roughness
and sharp edges likely to increase the risk of serious injuries to the
occupants.
ANNEX 1
DETERMINATION OF THE HEAD-IMPACT ZONE
Paragraph 2. 1. 1. 2.
The choice between the two procedures for determining height is to be left to
the manufacturer.
Paragraph 2. 2.
When determining points of contact, the length of the arm of the measuring
apparatus is not changed during a particular operation. Each operation
starts from the vertical position.
Paragraph 3.
The 25.4 mm dimension means the measurement from a horizontal plane passing
through the "H" point to the horizontal tangent to the lower profile
of the headform.
ANNEX 4
PROCEDURE FOR TESTING ENERGY-DISSIPATING MATERIALS
Paragraph 1. 4.
The breakage of any component during the energy-dissipation test, see Note on
paragraph 5. 1. 2.
ANNEX 5
PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE "H" POINT AND THE ACTUAL TORSO ANGLE FOR
SEATING POSITIONS IN MOTOR VEHICLES
Paragraph 4.
For determining the "H" point of any seat, other seats may be removed if
necessary.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


## Page 14

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 14
14
Paragraph 3,APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL, unchanged
Paragraph 4, APPROVAL, unchanged
Paragraph 5.REQUIREMENTS, amend to read:
Paragraph 5.1 amend to read:
5. 1. Forward interior parts of the passenger compartment above the level of
the instrument panel in front of the front seat "H" Points,
excluding the side doors.
5.1.1 amend to read:
New text arrangements according to the discussion in Madrid II, see 5.1.1. and
5.1.7., 5.1.7.1 and 5.1.7.2.:
5. 1. 1. The reference zone defined in paragraph 2. 3. above shall not contain
any dangerous roughness or sharp edges likely to increase the risk of serious
injury to the occupants.
If the head impact area is determined according to annex 1, the parts referred
to in paragraphs 5. 1. 2. to 5. 1. 6. below shall be deemed satisfactory if
they comply with the requirements of those paragraphs.
If the head impact area is determined according to annex 8 the requirements of
paragraph 5.1.7 apply.
Justification:
The alternative test according to annex 8 is consequently added as second
possibility and will be explained at the beginning of 5.1 in paragraph 5.1.1.
Paragraphs 5.1.2.to 5.1.5., unchanged
Paragraph 5. 1. 6., amend to read:
In the case of a projection comprising a component made of non-rigid material
of less than 50 shore A hardness mounted on a rigid support, the requirements
of paragraphs 5. 1. 4. and 5. 1. 5. shall apply only to the rigid support or it
can be demonstrated by sufficient tests according to the procedure described in
annex 4 that the soft material of less than 50 shore A hardness will not be cut
during head impact tests.
Justification:
In case of knobs the upper surface is often covered by a material softer than
50 shore A to provide a better grip or haptic feeling to the occupants who use
the knob. Most of the designs are not dangerous even if the original radii
requirements apply not to the hard surface, but to the soft material. The test
according to annex 4 allows to determine if the arrangement is dangerous in the
sense of the Regulation.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


## Page 15

15
Insert the following new paragraphs:
5.1.7. The following paragraphs shall apply:
5.1.7.1 If the protective system of the vehicle type cannot avoid head
contacts of the occupants defined in paragraph 2.1. of Annex 8 with the
instrument panel and a dynamic reference zone according to Annex 8 is
determined the requirements of paragraphs 5.1.2. to 5.1.6. are applicable
only to the parts located in that zone.
Other areas of the dashboard above the level of the instrument panel shall
contain no dangerous parts likely to increase the risk of serious injuries to
the occupants. If these parts can be contacted by a 165mm diameter sphere,
they shall be at least blunted.
5.1.7.2. If the protective system of the vehicle type is able to avoid head
contacts of the occupants defined in paragraph 2.1. of Annex 8 with the
instrument panel and therefore no reference zone can be determined, the
requirements of paragraphs 5.1.2. to 5.1.6. are not applicable to this
vehicle type.
The dashboard above the level of instrument panel shall contain
no dangerous parts likely to increase the risk of serious injuries to the
occupants. Parts of the vehicle in that area which can be contacted by a
165mm diameter sphere, shall be at least blunted.
Justification:
Consequences of the introduction of the requirements according to Annex 8. It
is the choice of the applicant to use the well known requirements for the knobs
and levers, surfaces and parts above the level of the instrument panel ( see
5.1 to 5.1.6 above
or
to demonstrate the behaviour and the benefits of the restraint system. In this
case, if no head impact occur, the requirements for knobs and levers and parts
can be deleted except the general requirement of a minimum radius, that means
blunted edges in every case.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraphs 5.2 to 5.2.3.2 unchanged
Paragraph 5.2.4 modified as:
5. 2. 4. If the items in question contain a part made of material less than 50
shore A hardness when fitted to a rigid support, the above requirements, except
for the requirements covered by annex 4 relating to energy-absorption, shall
apply only to the rigid support or it can be demonstrated by sufficient tests
according to the procedure described in annex 4 that the soft material of less
than 50 shore A hardness will not be cut during the head impact test. In that
case the required radius shall apply to the soft surface only.


## Page 16

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 16
16
Justification:
In case of knobs the upper surface is often covered by a material softer than
50 shore A to provide a better grip or haptic feeling to the occupants who use
the knob. Most of the designs are not dangerous even if the original radii
requirements apply not to the hard surface, but to the soft material. The test
according to annex 4 allows to determine if the arrangement is dangerous in the
sense of the Regulation.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Further requirements to “window-winder” has been deleted from the agenda of
the ad-hoc group and shall be revised as “long term item” in the near future.
The ad –hoc group recommend to amend the Explanatory Notes as follows:
Insert a new explanatory note to paragraph 5.3.2.2.:
With new modern door designs, window winders handle is sometimes
surrounded by the form of the door panel. It is often impossible for an occupant
to touch the handle  with his knees. It is up to the Technical Services to decide in
this cases with the agreement of the manufacturer to carry out the push test as
described or not. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraphs 5.3.2.3 to 5.3.4.1. unchanged
Paragraph 5.3.5 amended as:
5. 3. 5. If the parts considered above comprise a component made of material of
less than 50 shore A hardness, mounted on a rigid support, the above
requirements shall apply only to the rigid support. or it can be demonstrated
by sufficient tests according to the procedure described in annex 4 that the
soft material of less than 50 shore A hardness will not be cut during the head
impact test. In that case the required radius shall apply to the soft surface
only.
Justification:
In case of knobs the upper surface is often covered by a material softer than
50 shore A to provide a better grip or haptic feeling to the occupants who use
the knob. Most of the designs are not dangerous even if the origin radii
requirements apply not to the hard surface, but to the soft material. The test
according to annex 4 allows to determine if the arrangement is dangerous in
sense of the Regulation.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraph 5.4 and subparagraphs unchanged
5.5. Vehicles with an opening roof 
Paragraphs 5.5.1 to 5.5.1.2.3. unchanged


## Page 17

17
(The following new item is inserted)as:
Paragraph 5.5.2.
In addition, power-operated roof-panel systems and their controls shall meet
the requirements of item 5.8 below.
Justification:
Consequences of the introduction of requirements for power-operated window/roof
opening/partition systems. It is proposed to lay down these requirements in
paragraph 5.8. of the Regulation No. 21.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paragraphs 5.6 to 5.7.2 unchanged
No final discussion during the Madrid II meeting !
OICA will present the correct versions of ECE- Regulation 17 ( ??series of
amendments) and 25 ( ??series of amendments)
D propose to add: In case of use of an approval according to REG 17 and/ or REG
25 it is permitted to test the seat/head restraint system again, if further
requirements exist in ECE- Regulation 21 for such parts.
Paragraph 5.7.3 amend to read:
5. 7. 3. The requirements of paragraph 5. 7. shall be considered to be
satisfied in the case of head restraints rear parts of seats that either are
part of a vehicle type approved under Regulation No. 17 (03 ?? series of
amendments) and in addition or are approved under Regulation No. 25 (02 ??
series of amendments).
(D):In case of use of an approval according to REG 17 it shall be stated in
this approval, that all aspects of the requirements of ECE- Regulation No.21
related to the rear parts of seats are fulfilled.
Justifications:
1. made in OICA report of the meeting in Cologne: Current text only mentions
about head restraints while the R17 provides similar requirements for rear part
of seats. The proposed amendment avoids redundancy between REG 21 and REG 17.
2. made by D: The REG 21 requirements for the rear parts of the seat describe
the determination of head impact points in relation to all seating positions
which are provided by the manufacturer behind that seat. (For example,
determination of head impact points from the seat behind, from the centre
seating position and from the other outboard seating position). ECE- Regulation
17 should be brought fully in line with REG 21; then the above mentioned last
sentence of the proposal can be deleted.
The ad hoc group will be highly requested to keep the existing text of  REG 21
!!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


## Page 18

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 18
18
Paragraphs 5.8. and 5.8.1., Other not mentioned fittings, are renumbered as
item 5.9 and 5.9.1
Justification:
See paragraph 5.5.2.1. above, incorporation of requirements for power-operated
window etc.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
New text of paragraph 5.8
5.8 Power-operated windows, roof panel systems and partition systems
5.8.1. The requirements below apply to power-operated windows/roof-panel
systems/partition systems to minimise the possibility of injuries caused
by accidental or improper operation.
5.8.2. Normal operating requirements
Except as provided in Item 5.8.3, power-operated windows/roof-panel
systems/partition systems may be closed under one or more of the
following conditions:
5.8.2.1. when the ignition key is inserted in the ignition control in any
position of use or,in an equivalent condition, in case of a keyless
entry- and/or drive authorization system
5.8.2.2. by muscular force unassisted by power supply of the vehicle;
5.8.2.3. on continuous activation by a locking system on the outside of
the vehicle;
5.8.2.4. during the interval of time between the moment the ignition has
been switched from "on" to "off" and/or the key has been removed or, in
case of a keyless entry and/or drive authorisation system in an
equivalent condition and the moment that neither of the two front doors
has been opened sufficiently to permit egress of occupants;
5.8.2.5. when the closing movement of a power-operated window, roof panel
or partition starts at an opening not exceeding 4 mm;
5.8.2.6. when the power-operated window of a vehicle's door without an
upper door frame closes automatically whenever the pertinent door is
closed. In this case the maximum opening, as defined in Item 2.16, prior
to window closing, shall not exceed 12 mm.
5.8.2.7. Remote closing shall be allowed by continuous activation of a
remote actuation device, provided one of the following conditions is are
fulfilled:
5.8.2.7.1. the remote actuation device shall be incapable of closing the
power-operated window/roof panel/partition from a distance of more than
11 metres from the vehicle;


## Page 19

19
5.8.2.7.2.
the remote actuation device shall be incapable of closing the
power-operated window/roof panel/partition:
— if the actuation device and the vehicle are separated by an opaque 
surface
and
— if the distance between the remote actuation device and the vehicle 
is more than 6 metres.
Proposal OICA (Barry Cooke) :
5.8.2.7.
Remote closing shall be allowed by continuous activation of
a remote actuation device,provided one of the following 
conditions is fulfilled:
5.8.2.7.1
the remote actuation device shall be incapable of closing 
the power-operated window/roof panel/partition from a 
distance of more than 6 metres from the vehicle;
5.8.2.7.2
the remote actuation device shall be incapable of closing 
the power-operated window/roof panel/partition, in each of 
the following two circumstances:
- when the actuation device and the vehicle are separated 
by an opaque surface;
and
- when the distance between the remote actuation device and
the vehicle is more than 11 metres.
5.8.2.8. One-touch closing shall be permitted only for the power-operated
window of the driver's door and the roof panel, and only during the time
when the ignition key is in the engine running position or after the
engine was switched off, as long as none of the front doors was opened
wide enough to enable the occupants to leave the vehicle.
5.8.3. Auto-reversing requirements
5.8.3.1. 
None of the requirements in Item 5.8.2 shall apply if a power-
operated window/roof panel system/partition is fitted with an auto-
reversing device.
5.8.3.1.1.
This device shall reverse the window/roof panel/partition
before it exerts a pinch force of more than 100 N within the opening of
200 mm to 4 mm above the top edge of a power-operated window/partition or
in front of the leading edge of a sliding roof panel and at the trailing
edge of a tilting roof panel.


## Page 20

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 20
20
5.8.3.1.2.
After such an auto-reversal, the window or roof panel or
partition shall open to one of the following positions:
5.8.3.1.2.1. a position that permits a semi-rigid cylindrical rod of a
diameter of 200 mm to be placed through the opening at the same contact
point(s) used to determine the reversing behaviour in Item 5.8.3.1.1;
5.8.3.1.2.2. a position that represents at least the initial position
before closing was initiated;
5.8.3.1.2.3. a position at least 50 mm more open than the position at the
time when reversing was initiated;
5.8.3.1.2.4. in the case of tilting motion of a roof panel, the maximum
angular opening.
5.8.3.1.3.
To check power-operated windows/roof-panel systems/partition
systems with reversing devices, a measuring instrument/test rod shall be
placed through the opening from the inside of the vehicle or, in the case
of a partition system, from the rear part of the passenger compartment in
such a way that the cylindrical surface of the rod contacts any part of
the vehicle structure which forms the boundary of the window/roof-panel
aperture/partition. The force deflection ratio of the measuring
instrument shall be 10 N/mm with a tolerance of max. 1 N/mm. The position
of the test rods (normally located perpendicular to the window/roof panel
/-partition and perpendicular to the closing-direction) are illustrated
in Annex 9, Figure 1. The relative position of the test rod shall be kept
during the test.
5.8.4. Switch location and operation
5.8.4.1. Switches of power-operated windows/roof panels/partitions shall
be located or operated in such a way to minimise the risk of accidental
closing. The switches shall require continuous actuation for closing
except in the case of Items 5.8.2.6, 5.8.2.8 or 5.8.3.
5.8.4.2. All rear-window, roof-panel and partition switches intended for
use by occupants in the rear of the vehicle shall be capable of being
switched off by a driver-controlled switch which is located forward of a
vertical transverse plane passing through the R points of the front
seats. The driver controlled switch is not required if a rear window,
roof panel or partition is equipped with an auto-reversing device. If,
however, the driver-controlled switch is present, it shall not be able to
override the auto-reversing device.
The driver-controlled switch shall be located so as to minimise any
accidental manipulating. It shall be identified by the symbol shown in
Annex 9, Figure 2 Appendix 4 or an equivalent labelling, for example,
according to ISO 2575: 1998.


## Page 21

21
5.8.5. Protection devices to the power source
All protection devices which are used to prevent damage to the power
source in the case of an overload or stalling shall reset themselves
after an overload or an automatic switch off. It is not permissible to
resume the motion in the closing direction automatically.
Madrid II OICA- Proposal: (insert after closing direction) ......automatically during a
one-touch closing operation.
5.8.6. Handbook instructions
5.8.6.1. The owner's manual of the vehicle shall contain clear
instructions relating to the power-operated window/roof panel/partition,
including:
5.8.6.1.1.
explanation of possible consequences (entrapment),
5.8.6.1.2.
use of the driver-controlled switch,
5.8.6.1.3. a „WARNING“ message indicating the dangers, particularly to
children in the case of improper use/activation of the power-operated
windows/roof-panel systems/partition systems. This information should
indicate the responsibilities of the driver, including instructions for
other occupants and the recommendation to leave the vehicle only if the
key is removed from the ignition lock, or if, in case of a keyless entry-
and/or drive authorization system, an equivalent condition is ensured.
5.8.6.1.4.
a „WARNING“ message indicating that special care should be
taken when using remote closing systems (see Item 5.8.2.7), for example
to actuate it only when the operator has a clear view of the vehicle to
be sure that nobody can be trapped by power-operated windows/roof-
panel/partition equipment’.
5.8.7. If a power-operated window, roof-opening and/ or partition system is
installed in a vehicle that can not be tested according to the test
procedures mentioned above the approval may be granted if the manufacturer
can demonstrate an equal or improved protection- effect for the occupants.
Justification:
The Directive 74/60/EEC,last amended by Directive 2000/4/EC (based on a
document which has been distributed in Brussels in 1997),incorporates
requirements for power-operated window, roof-opening and partition systems.
It is helpful to bring the ECE- Regulation 21 in line with the text of the
Directive. The existing text of the Directive 2000/4/EC is printed in colour
blue. In the meantime it seems necessary to modify the existing text of the
Directive 2000/4/EC and to adapt these text to the technical progress. All
draft modifications are printed in colour red.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


## Page 22

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 22
22
Insert and renumber the former paragraph 5.8. as:
5.9.
Other non-specified fittings.
5.9.1. The requirements of paragraph 5 shall apply to such fittings not
mentioned in previous paragraphs which, within the meaning of the various
requirements in points 5.1 to 5.8 and according to their location in the
vehicle, are capable of being contacted by the occupants. If such parts
are made of a material softer than 50 shore A hardness and mounted on (a)
rigid support(s), the requirements in question shall apply only to the
rigid support(s).(see 5.1.6. e.t.c. before)
5.9.2. For parts like a center console, for example, or other components
of the vehicle which belong to 5.9.1., it is not necessary to perform a
energy dissipation test according to Annex 4 to any component contactable
by the device and procedure specified in Annex 1 if
- in the opinion of the Technical Service the occupants head is unlikely
to contact the component, because of the restraint system(s) installed in
the vehicle
or
-
because the manufacturer can proof the lack of such contact using, for
example, the method described in Annex 8, or any equivalent method.
Justification:
Clarification of the assessment procedure in special cases where ″Other not
mentioned fittings″ has to be tested. Use of the testing philosophy according
to Annex 8 and keeping in mind the safety belt installation requirements which
allows the occupants to use a restraint system.
Paragraph 6., MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL OF THE VEHICLE TYPE,
unchanged
Paragrahh 7., CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION, unchanged
Paragraph 8., PENALTIES FOR NON-CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION, unchanged
Paragraph 9., PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED, unchanged
Paragraph 10., NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF TECHNICAL SERVICES RESPONSIBLE FOR
CONDUCTING APPROVAL TESTS, AND OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS, unchanged
Annex 1, DETERMINATION OF HEAD- IMPACT ZONE, unchanged
Annex 2, COMMUNICATION , unchanged
Annex 3, ARRANGEMENT OF THE APPROVAL MARKS, unchanged


## Page 23

23
Annex 4, PROCEDURE FOR TESTING ENERGX-DISSIPATING MATERIALS, unchanged
Annex 5, PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE „H“ POINT AND THE ACTUAL TORSO ANGLE FOR
SEATING POSITIONS IN MOTOR VEHICLES, unchanged
Annex 5 - Appendix 1, DESCRIPTION OF THE THREE-DIMENSIONAL „H“ POINT MACHINE,
unchanged
Annex 5.- Appendix 2, TREE-DIMENSIONAL REFERENCE SYSTEM, unchanged
ANNEX 5 - Appendix 3, REFERENCE DATA CONCERNING SEATING POSITIONS, unchanged
Annex 6, METHOD OF MEASURING PROJECTIONS, unchanged
Annex 6, Appendix Figure: Apparatus for measuring  projections, unchanged
Annex 7, APPARATUS AND PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION OF PARAGRAPH 5.2.1. OF THIS
REGULATION, unchanged


## Page 24

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 24
24
The text of annex 8 has been modified by G. Felten, following the discussion,
which took place during the meeting in Madrid II. The group does not agree the
proposal made by the representative of Italy, to use the pendulum with a length of
736 mm to 840 mm to evaluate a dynamic determined head impact zone, because
this instrument is unrealistic to check the performance of a restraint system which
consists of a belt. The following text should discussed by the members of the ad-
hoc group and finally in GRSP.
(New) Annex 8, DETERMINATION OF A DYNAMIC DETERMINED HEAD IMPACT ZONE
1. 
Determination of the dynamic determined head impact zone with regard 
to the protective system
1.1. 
Differing from the procedure described in Annex 1 the applicant may 
prove, by a procedure accepted by the technical service responsible 
for conducting the tests, that a dynamic determined head impact zone 
is relevant for this vehicle type.
1.2. 
A suitable methode to prove a dymanic determined head impact zone may 
be either:
1.2.1. Vehicle impact tests
to determine the sequence of movement of the occupants with regard to 
the protective system installed in the vehicle type, using the frontal
impact conditions in the range of +/- 30 degrees (for example frontal 
impact tests according to FMVSS 208) with an impact speed of at least 
48,3 km/h.
The dymanic determined head impact zone has to be evaluated for the 
occupants represented by dummies of the types 5th percentile female, 
50th percentile male and 95th percentile male, each placed in its 
recommended design seating position before the test as defined by 
the manufacturer.
or
1.2.2. Sled tests
The sequence of movement shall be investigated under the effect of the
deceleration-time diagramm as shown in Annex 8 of Regulation No.16 
(reference speed 50 km/h) respecting the above prescribed dummy family
and producing a direction of a foreward displacement of the 
respective dummies corresponding to the movement of the dummies during
real frontal impact tests according to paragraph 1.2.1.
The direction of the foreward displacement of the dummies seems 
sufficient, if the centre line of the test object, normally a body 
shell, deviates +/- 18 degree from the longitidunal centerline of the
sled
or


## Page 25

25
1.2.3. Simulated impact testing
The sequence of movements of the occupants, represented by the above 
described dummy family according to 1.2.1 shall be investigated under 
the configurations of 1.2.1 or 1.2.2.
It is sufficient to validate the simulation methode on at least one 
of the impact conditions as prescribed in paragraphs 1.2.1 or 1.2.2 
above.
2.
The dymanic determined head impact zone includes all areas of 
the 
instrument panel that may be contacted by the head of restraint 
occupants using the protective system installed in the vehicle type.
3
If the vehicle type can be fitted with different protection systems it
is sufficient to investigate the protection system with the minimum 
performance. Protection systems that can be deactivated by the driver 
or the occupant have to be used as designed by the manufacturer.
4. 
The manufacturer or his representative is entitled to present 
calculations, simulations, test data or test results which 
sufficiently prove the dynamic determined head impact zone.
Justification:
The proposal to incorporate annex 8 as a voluntary requirement considers:
Introduction of new requirements in the reference zone, keeping in mind, that
it is the choice of the vehicle manufacturer to decide to use the existing
requirements (determination of the head impact area, head impact tests to the
instrument panel, radii requirements)
or
on a voluntary base, to use the new requirements according to annex 8. In
this case the protection performance of the vehicle equipped with a restraint
system (safety belts, airbag system(s), load limiter etc. )shall be in a
condition, that in case of frontal impact within the range of +/- 30 degrees
no head impact to the reference zone occurs.


## Page 26

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 26
26
ANNEX 9
POSITION OF CYLINDRICAL TEST ROD IN THE OPENING ROOF AND WINDOW OPENINGS
TYPICAL POSITIONS OF TEST RODS
FIGURE 1
Roof panel
roof frame
Typical position of
cylindrical test rod
interior
exterior
Window frame
Typical position
of cylindrical
test rod


## Page 27

27
SYMBOL FOR DRIVER CONTROLLED SWITCH
FIGURE 2
Justification:
Consequences following the above mentioned requirements, .i.e. the amended version of
Directive 2000/4/EC


## Page 28

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 28
28
Because of lack of time the following gap / grilles- proposal could not discussed
during the meeting of Madrid II. The chairman of the ad-hoc group recommend to
discuss the proposal during the next GRSP- meeting
Additional documents provided for the discussion in Madrid:
An:
"G. FELTEN Felten" <felten@de.tuv.com>, "R. CHICHARRO Chicharro" <chicharro@inta.es>
Kopie:
Paul serre <pserre@ccfa.fr>, oica Yves Van Der Straaten <oicatech@club-internet.fr>, Castaing
<cespa@utac.com>, Yannick Souchet <yannick.souchet@equipement.gouv.fr>, "oica@oica.net"
<oica@oica.net>
Thema: Proposal of amendments to regulation 21 Viren-geprueft/Virus-checked
As agreed in Cologne on 18 May please find attached 3 documents about 2
proposals regarding window winders and gaps/grilles requirements (points
4 and 5 of the Cologne agenda). These proposals correspond to the
agreements we got in Cologne, at least between a majority of attendees.
About window winder test exemption I have some doubt on the need to have
the alternative between the 2 conditions of the proposal. Are these 2
conditions fully consistent ? Maybe we had better to keep the "kneeform"
condition only ? This could be discussed next meeting in Madrid.
About gaps and grilles proposal, I think that nothing has to be changed
but perhaps some of the wording, which could be improved .
See you soon,
Daniel Pouget
 - Ad hoc GRSP on ECE 21, sharp edges, gaps and grilles.doc
 - ECE 21 GAP.bmp
 - Ad hoc GRSP on ECE 21, window winder.doc
(Remark Felten: Incorporated in the above described document)


## Page 29

29
Ad hoc GRSP on ECE 21
13-14 September 2000
ECE 21, PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT TO GAPS AND GRILLES REQUIREMENTS
(prepared by OICA, according to ad hoc GRSP meeting in Cologne, May 2000)
PROPOSAL
1°) Delete, within the explanatory notes, the whole § 5.1.1 on sharp edges and grilles (pages 18)
2°) Add a new § 2.10  (page 5)
2.10  
A sharp edge is an edge of a rigid material having a radius of curvature of less than 2,5 mm, 
except in the case of projections of less than 3,2 mm, measured from the panel.
3°) Insert a new § 5.8  (page 13)
5.8  
Common specifications
The following specifications apply to all interior parts of the passenger compartment which are
defined from paragraph 5.1 to paragraph 5.7 :
5.8.1  
If the edge of a rigid material projects by less than 3,2 mm, this edge has not to be rounded to the 
minimum radius of curvature, provided the height of the projection is not more than half its width 
and this edge is blunted.
 
5.8.2  
Grilles are considered to comply with the regulation if they meet the minimum requirements of the
 
following table :
(insert the existing table, page 18, of the current explanatory notes)
4°) Renumber existing § 5.8 and 5.8.1 as § 5.9 and 5.9.1
5°) Insert, within the explanatory notes, a new paragraph 2.10, after paragraph 2.7  (page 17)
Paragraph 2.10
In case of a gap between the edge of a rigid material and the panel, this edge shall be rounded to a
minimum radius of curvature depending on the height of the projection, according to paragraphs 2.10 and
5.8.1. This projection height has to be determined according to the procedure described in paragraph 1 of
annex 6 (See figure below).
(Insert new figure)
JUSTIFICATION
The requirements on sharp edges and grilles are indicated within the explanatory notes about § 5.1.1, concerning
components located within the reference zone. It is obvious that these requirements are as much worthwhile for other
zones, whatever  the location of edges and grilles within the interior parts of the passenger compartment, which are
defined from § 5.1 to § 5.7.
____________


## Page 30

TRANS/WP.29/GRSP/2000/XX
page 30
30
Proposal made by OICA:
Insert a new paragraph 1.4.4 in annex 4 , PROCEDURE FOR TESTING ENERGY-
DISSIPATING MATERIALS:
1.4.4.
If an airbag is installed and covers at least part of the reference zone, the test
may be carried out with the airbag inflated at the request of the applicant
Justification:
Alternative  agreed in Cologne by a majority, but absent from the compilation by
G. Felten
The above mentioned text has been discussed in Madrid II again with the
following result:
Agreed by:
F, I, E, NL, OICA
Disagreed by 
S, D, UK serious reservation
