## Page 1

1193 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.301 
[86 FR 74302, Dec. 29, 2021] 
EFFECTIVE DATE NOTES: 1. At 86 FR 74302, 
Dec. 29, 2021, § 571.227 was added, effective 
Dec. 30, 2024. 
2. At 88 FR 77532, Nov. 13, 2023, § 571.227 was 
amended 
by 
revising 
the 
definition 
of 
‘‘Transit bus’’ in paragraph S4, revising 
paragraph S5.1(a), and revising the introduc-
tory text of S6.1.4, effective Dec. 30, 2024. For 
the convenience of the user, the revised text 
is set forth as follows: 
§ 571.227
Standard No. 227; Bus rollover 
structural integrity. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
S4. * * * 
Transit bus means a bus that is equipped 
with a stop-request system sold for public 
transportation provided by, or on behalf of, a 
Federal, State, or local government and that 
is not an over-the-road bus. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
S5.1 * * * 
(a) Items separated from the vehicle and 
with a mass less than 60.0 grams that enter 
the survival space will not be considered for 
this evaluation of survival space intrusion. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
S6.1.4
The tilting platform is equipped 
with rigid wheel supports on the top surface 
as illustrated in Figure 3 of this section (fig-
ure provided for illustration purposes only). 
At each vehicle axle, the wheel closest to the 
platform’s axis of rotation is supported. The 
rigid wheel supports are positioned to make 
contact with the outboard tire sidewall of 
the supported wheels with the vehicle posi-
tioned as specified in S7(a) to prevent sliding 
of the vehicle during the test. Each rigid 
wheel support has the following dimensions: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
§ 571.301
Standard No. 301; Fuel sys-
tem integrity. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies re-
quirements for the integrity of motor 
vehicle fuel systems. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce deaths and inju-
ries occurring from fires that result 


## Page 2

1194 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.301 
from fuel spillage during and after 
motor vehicle crashes, and resulting 
from ingestion of fuels during siphon-
ing. 
S3. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars, and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
that have a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less 
and use fuel with a boiling point above 
0 °C, and to school buses that have a 
GVWR greater than 4,536 kg and use 
fuel with a boiling point above 0 °C. 
S4. Definition. Fuel spillage means the 
fall, flow, or run of fuel from the vehi-
cle but does not include wetness result-
ing from capillary action. 
S5. General requirements. 
S5.1
Passenger cars, and multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with 
a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less. Each 
passenger car and each multipurpose 
passenger vehicle, truck, and bus with 
a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less shall 
meet the requirements of S6.1 through 
S6.4. Each of these types of vehicles 
that is manufactured to use alcohol 
fuels shall also meet the requirements 
of S6.6. 
S5.2 [Reserved] 
S5.3 [Reserved] 
S5.4
Schoolbuses with a GVWR greater 
than 10,000 pounds. Each schoolbus with 
a GVWR greater than 10,000 pounds 
shall meet the requirements of S6.5. 
Each schoolbus with a GVWR greater 
than 10,000 pounds that is manufac-
tured to use alcohol fuels shall meet 
the requirements of S6.6. 
S5.5
Fuel spillage; Barrier crash. Fuel 
spillage in any fixed or moving barrier 
crash test shall not exceed 28 g from 
impact until motion of the vehicle has 
ceased, and shall not exceed a total of 
142 g in the 5-minute period following 
cessation of motion. For the subse-
quent 25-minute period, fuel spillage 
during any 1 minute interval shall not 
exceed 28 g. 
S5.6
Fuel spillage; rollover. Fuel spill-
age in any rollover test, from the onset 
of rotational motion, shall not exceed a 
total of 142 g for the first 5 minutes of 
testing at each successive 90° incre-
ment. For the remaining test period, at 
each increment of 90° fuel spillage dur-
ing any 1 minute interval shall not ex-
ceed 28 g. 
S5.7. Alcohol fuel vehicles. Each vehi-
cle manufactured to operate on an al-
cohol fuel (e.g., methanol, ethanol) or a 
fuel blend containing at least 20 per-
cent alcohol fuel shall meet the re-
quirements of S6.6. 
S6. Test requirements. Each vehicle 
with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less shall be 
capable of meeting the requirements of 
any applicable barrier crash test fol-
lowed by a static rollover, without al-
teration of the vehicle during the test 
sequence. A particular vehicle need not 
meet further requirements after having 
been subjected to a single barrier crash 
test and a static rollover test. Where 
manufacturer options are specified in 
this standard, the manufacturer must 
select an option not later than the 
time it certifies the vehicle and may 
not thereafter select a different option 
for that vehicle. Each manufacturer 
must, upon request from the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion, provide information regarding 
which of the compliance options it has 
selected for a particular vehicle or 
make/model. 
S6.1
Frontal barrier crash. When the 
vehicle travelling longitudinally for-
ward at any speed up to and including 
48 km/h impacts a fixed collision bar-
rier that is perpendicular to the line of 
travel of the vehicle, or at any angle up 
to 30° in either direction from the per-
pendicular to the line of travel of the 
vehicle, with 50th-percentile test dum-
mies as specified in part 572 of this 
chapter at each front outboard des-
ignated seating position and at any 
other position whose protection system 
is required to be tested by a dummy 
under the provisions of Standard No. 
208, under the applicable conditions of 
S7., fuel spillage shall not exceed the 
limits of S5.5. 
S6.2
Rear moving barrier crash. (a) 
Vehicles manufactured before September 
1, 2006. When the vehicle is impacted 
from the rear by the barrier specified 
in S7.3(a) of this standard moving at 48 
km/h, with 50th percentile test dum-
mies as specified in part 572 of this 
chapter at each front outboard des-
ignated seating position, under the ap-
plicable conditions of S7, fuel spillage 
must not exceed the limits of S5.5. 
(b) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2006. When the vehicle is 
impacted from the rear by a moving de-
formable barrier 80 ±1.0 km/h with a 70 


## Page 3

1195 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.301 
percent overlap, with 50th percentile 
test dummies as specified in part 572 of 
this chapter at each front outboard 
designated seating position, under the 
applicable conditions of S7, fuel spill-
age must not exceed the limits of S5.5. 
(c) Small volume manufacturers. Not-
withstanding S6.2(b) of this standard, 
vehicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2004 and before September 1, 
2008 by a manufacturer that produces 
fewer than 5,000 vehicles annually for 
sale in the United States may meet the 
requirements of S6.2(a). Vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2008 
by small volume manufacturers must 
meet the requirements of S6.2(b). 
S6.3
Side moving barrier crash. (a) Ve-
hicles manufactured before September 1, 
2004. When the vehicle is impacted lat-
erally on either side by a barrier mov-
ing at 32 km/h with 50th percentile test 
dummies as specified in part 572 of this 
chapter at positions required for test-
ing to Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 
571.208), under the applicable condi-
tions of S7, fuel spillage must not ex-
ceed the limits of S5.5. 
(b) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2004. When the vehicle is 
impacted laterally on either side by a 
moving deformable barrier at 53 ± 1.0 
km/h with the appropriate 49 CFR part 
572 test dummies specified in 571.214 at 
positions required for testing by S7.1.1, 
S7.2.1, or S7.2.2 of Standard 214, under 
the applicable conditions of S7 of this 
standard, fuel spillage shall not exceed 
the limits of S5.5 of this standard. 
(c)(1) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this 
standard, vehicles having a GVWR 
greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) may 
meet S6.3(a) instead of S6.3(b) of this 
standard until September 1, 2005. 
(2) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this 
standard, vehicles having a GVWR 
greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) manu-
factured on or after September 1, 2005 
must meet the requirements of S6.3(b) 
of this standard unless they are ex-
cluded from S6.3(b) under the phase-in 
specified in this paragraph. Excluded 
vehicles must meet the requirements 
of S6.3(a) of this standard. For vehicles 
having a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb 
(2,722 kg) manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2005 and before September 
1, 2006, the number of vehicles com-
plying with S6.3(b) shall be not less 
than 90 percent of: 
(i) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles with a 
GVWR greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
2002 and before September 1, 2005; or 
(ii) The manufacturer’s production of 
vehicles with a GVWR greater than 
6,000 lb (2,722 kg) on or after September 
1, 2004 and before September 1, 2005. 
(iii) Vehicles that have a GVWR 
greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) and that 
are manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2006 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3(b) of this standard. 
(3) Vehicles produced by more than one 
manufacturer. For the purpose of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S6.3(c)(2)(i) 
and S6.3(c)(2)(ii) of this standard, a ve-
hicle produced by more than one manu-
facturer shall be attributed to a single 
manufacturer as follows, subject to 
S6.3(c)(4). 
(i) A vehicle which is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(ii) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer that markets the vehicle. 
(4) A vehicle produced by more than 
one manufacturer shall be attributed 
to any one of the vehicle’s manufactur-
ers specified by an express written con-
tract, reported to the National High-
way 
Traffic 
Safety 
Administration 
under 49 CFR 568.6, between the manu-
facturer so specified and the manufac-
turer to which the vehicle would other-
wise be attributed under S6.3(c)(3). 
(d) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) of this 
standard, vehicles with a GVWR of 
6,000 lb (2,722 kg) or less that are manu-
factured in two or more stages or al-
tered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 
567.7) after having been previously cer-
tified in accordance with part 567 of 
this chapter may meet S6.3(a) of this 
standard until September 1, 2005. Vehi-
cles with a GVWR of 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) 
or less that are manufactured in two or 
more stages or altered (within the 
meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having 
been previously certified in accordance 
with part 567 of this chapter and that 


## Page 4

1196 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.301 
are manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2005 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3(b) 
(e) Notwithstanding S6.3(b) and (c) of 
this standard, vehicles with a GVWR 
greater than 6,000 lb (2,722 kg) that are 
manufactured in two or more stages or 
altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 
567.7) after having been previously cer-
tified in accordance with part 567 of 
this chapter may meet S6.3(a) of this 
standard until September 1, 2006. Vehi-
cles with a GVWR greater than 6,000 lb 
(2,722 kg) that are manufactured in two 
or more stages or altered (within the 
meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having 
been previously certified in accordance 
with part 567 of this chapter and that 
are manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2006 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3(b). 
S6.4
Static rollover. When the vehicle 
is rotated on its longitudinal axis to 
each successive increment of 90°, fol-
lowing an impact crash of S6.1, S6.2, or 
S6.3, fuel spillage shall not exceed the 
limits of S5.6. 
S6.5
Moving contoured barrier crash. 
When the moving contoured barrier as-
sembly traveling longitudinally for-
ward at any speed up to and including 
48 km/h impacts the test vehicle 
(school bus with a GVWR exceeding 
4,536 kg) at any point and angle, under 
the applicable conditions of S7.1 and 
S7.5, fuel spillage shall not exceed the 
limits of S5.5. 
S6.6
Anti-siphoning test for alcohol 
fuel vehicles. Each vehicle shall have 
means that prevent any hose made of 
vinyl plastic or rubber, with a length of 
not less than 1200 millimeters (mm) 
and an outside diameter of not less 
than 5.2 mm, from contacting the level 
surface of the liquid fuel in the vehi-
cle’s fuel tank or fuel system, when the 
hose is inserted into the filler neck at-
tached to the fuel tank with the fuel 
tank filled to any level from 90 to 95 
percent of capacity. 
S7. Test conditions. The requirements 
of S5.1 through S5.6 and S6.1 through 
S6.5 shall be met under the following 
conditions. Where a range is specified, 
the vehicle must be capable of meeting 
the requirements at all points within 
the range. 
S7.1
General test conditions. The fol-
lowing conditions apply to all tests. 
S7.1.1
The fuel tank is filled to any 
level from 90 to 95 percent of capacity 
with Stoddard solvent, having the 
physical and chemical properties of 
type 1 solvent, Table I of ASTM D484– 
71 
(incorporated 
by 
reference, 
see 
§ 571.5). 
S7.1.2
The fuel system other than 
the fuel tank is filled with Stoddard 
solvent to its normal operating level. 
S7.1.3
In meeting the requirements 
of S6.1 through S6.3, if the vehicle has 
an electrically driven fuel pump that 
normally runs when the vehicle’s elec-
trical system is activated, it is oper-
ating at the time of the barrier crash. 
S7.1.4
The parking brake is dis-
engaged and the transmission is in neu-
tral, except that in meeting the re-
quirements of S6.5 the parking brake is 
set. 
S7.1.5
Tires are inflated to manufac-
turer’s specifications. 
S7.1.6
The vehicle, including test de-
vices and instrumentation, is loaded as 
follows: 
(a) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a 
passenger car is loaded to its unloaded 
vehicle weight plus its rated cargo and 
luggage capacity weight, secured in the 
luggage area, plus the necessary test 
dummies as specified in S6., restrained 
only by means that are installed in the 
vehicle for protection at its seating po-
sition. 
(b) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a 
multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, 
or bus with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less 
is loaded to its unloaded vehicle 
weight, plus the necessary test dum-
mies as specified in S6, plus 136 kg or 
its rated cargo and luggage capacity 
weight, whichever is less, secured in 
the load carrying area and distributed 
as nearly as possible in proportion to 
its GAWR. For the purpose of this 
standard, unloaded vehicle weight does 
not include the weight of work-per-
forming accessories. Each dummy is 
restrained only by means that are in-
stalled in the vehicle for protection at 
its seating position. 
(c) Except as specified in S7.1.1, a 
school bus with a GVWR greater than 
4,536 kg is loaded to its unloaded vehi-
cle weight, plus 54 kg of unsecured 
mass at each designated seating posi-
tion. 


## Page 5

1197 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.301 
S7.2
Side moving barrier test condi-
tions. (a) Vehicles manufactured before 
September 1, 2004. The side moving bar-
rier crash test conditions are those 
specified in S8.2 of Standard No. 208 (49 
CFR 571.208). 
(b) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2004. The side moving de-
formable barrier crash test conditions 
are those specified in S8 of Standard 
214 (49 CFR 571.214). 
S7.3
Rear moving barrier test condi-
tions. (a) Vehicles manufactured before 
September 1, 2006. The rear moving bar-
rier test conditions are those specified 
in S8.2 of Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 
571.208), except for the positioning of 
the barrier and the vehicle. The barrier 
and test vehicle are positioned so that 
at impact— 
(1) The vehicle is at rest in its nor-
mal attitude; 
(2) The barrier is traveling at 48 km/ 
h with its face perpendicular to the 
longitudinal centerline of the vehicle; 
and 
(3) A vertical plane through the geo-
metric center of the barrier impact 
surface and perpendicular to that sur-
face coincides with the longitudinal 
centerline of the vehicle. 
(b) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2006. The rear moving de-
formable barrier is the same as that 
shown in Figure 2 of Standard No. 214 
(49 CFR 571.214) and specified in 49 CFR 
part 587, except as otherwise specified 
in paragraph S7.3 (b). The barrier and 
test vehicle are positioned so that at 
impact— 
(1) The vehicle is stationary; 
(2) The deformable face of the barrier 
is mounted on the barrier 50 mm (2 
inches) lower than the height from the 
ground specified in Figure 2 of Stand-
ard No. 214 (49 CFR 571.214) (All dimen-
sions from the ground in Figure 2, 
Front View should be reduced by 50 
mm (2 inches.)); 
(3) The barrier is traveling 80 ±1.0 km/ 
h; and 
(4) The barrier impacts the test vehi-
cle with the longitudinal centerline of 
the vehicle parallel to the line of travel 
and perpendicular to the barrier face 
within a tolerance of ±5 degrees. The 
test 
vehicle 
and 
barrier 
face 
are 
aligned so that the barrier strikes the 
rear of the vehicle with 70 percent 
overlap toward either side of the vehi-
cle. So aligned, the barrier face fully 
engages one half of the rear of the vehi-
cle and partially engages the other 
half. At impact, the vehicle’s longitu-
dinal centerline is located inboard ei-
ther of the side edges of the barrier by 
a distance equal to 20 percent of the ve-
hicle’s width ±50 mm (see Figure 3). The 
vehicle’s width is the maximum dimen-
sion measured across the widest part of 
the vehicle, including bumpers and 
molding, but excluding such compo-
nents as exterior mirrors, flexible mud 
flaps, marker lamps, and dual rear 
wheel configurations. 
S7.4
Static rollover test conditions. 
The vehicle is rotated about its longi-
tudinal axis, with the axis kept hori-
zontal, to each successive increment of 
90°, 180°, and 270° at a uniform rate, 
with 90° of rotation taking place in any 
time interval from 1 to 3 minutes. 
After reaching each 90° increment the 
vehicle is held in that position for 5 
minutes. 
S7.5
Moving contoured barrier test 
conditions. The following conditions 
apply to the moving contoured barrier 
crash test. 
S7.5.1
The moving barrier, which is 
mounted on a carriage as specified in 
Figure 1, is of rigid construction, sym-
metrical about a vertical longitudinal 
plane. The contoured impact surface, 
which is 629 mm high and 1,981 mm 
wide, 
conforms 
to 
the 
dimensions 
shown in Figure 2, and is attached to 
the carriage as shown in that figure. 
The ground clearance to the lower edge 
of the impact surface is 133 mm ±13 
mm. The wheelbase is 3,048 mm ±50 
mm. 
S7.5.2
The moving contoured bar-
rier, including the impact surface, sup-
porting structure, and carriage, has a 
mass of 1,814 kg ±23 kg with the mass 
distributed so that 408 kg ±11 kg is at 
each rear wheel and 499 kg ±11 kg is at 
each front wheel. The center of gravity 
is located 1,372 mm ±38 mm rearward of 
the front wheel axis, in the vertical 
longitudinal plane of symmetry, 401 
mm ±13 mm above the ground. 
S7.5.3
The moving contoured barrier 
has a solid nonsteerable front axle and 
fixed rear axle attached directly to the 
frame rails with no spring or other 
type of suspension system on any 


## Page 6

1198 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.301 
wheel. (The moving barrier assembly is 
equipped with a braking device capable 
of stopping its motion.) 
S7.5.4
The concrete surface upon 
which the vehicle is tested is level, 
rigid, and of uniform construction, 
with a skid number of 75 when meas-
ured in accordance with ASTM E274– 
65T (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5) at 64 km/h, omitting water de-
livery as specified in paragraph 7.1 of 
that method. 
S7.5.5
The barrier assembly is re-
leased from the guidance mechanism 
immediately prior to impact with the 
vehicle. 
S7.6
The moving barrier assemblies 
specified in S7.2, S7.3 and S7.5 are 
equipped with P205/75R15 pneumatic 
tires inflated to 200 kPa ±21 kPa. 
S8
Phase-In schedule. 
S8.1
Rear impact test upgrade. (a) Ve-
hicles manufactured on or after September 
1, 2006 and before September 1, 2007. For 
vehicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2006, and before September 1, 
2007, the number of vehicles complying 
with S6.2(b) of this standard must not 
be less than 40 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2004, and 
before September 1, 2007; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2006, and before 
September 1, 2007. 
(b) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2007 and before September 1, 
2008. For vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2007 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2008, the number of vehicles 
complying with S6.2(b) of this standard 
must not be less than 70 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2005, and 
before September 1, 2008; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2007, and before 
September 1, 2008. 
(c) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2008. For vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2008, the 
number of vehicles complying with 
S6.2(b) of this standard must be 100 per-
cent of the manufacturer’s production 
during that period. 
S8.2
Vehicles manufactured in two or 
more stages. A final stage manufacturer 
or alterer may, at its option, comply 
with the requirements set forth in 
S8.2.1 and S8.2.2. 
S8.2.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2006 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2009 are not required to com-
ply with the requirements specified in 
S6.2(b) of this standard. 
S8.2.2
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2009 must comply 
with the requirements specified in 
S6.2(b) of this standard. 
S8.3
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S8.3.1
For the purpose of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer under S8.1, a vehicle pro-
duced by more than one manufacturer 
must be attributed to a single manu-
facturer as follows, subject to S8.3.2: 
(a) A vehicle that is imported must 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, must be attributed to the man-
ufacturer that markets the vehicle. 
S8.3.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer must be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 586, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S8.3.1. 


## Page 7

1199 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.301 


## Page 8

1200 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.301 


## Page 9

1201 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.301 
[40 FR 48353, Oct. 15, 1975] 
EDITORIAL NOTE: For FEDERAL REGISTER citations affecting § 571.301, see the List of CFR 
Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at 
www.govinfo.gov. 


