## Page 1

1138 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
[61 FR 2035, Jan. 24, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 3662, Jan. 26, 1998; 69 FR 64500, Nov. 5, 2004; 
69 FR 67668, Nov. 19, 2004; 71 FR 9277, Feb. 23, 2006; 87 FR 42372, July 15, 2022] 
§ 571.225
Standard No. 225; Child re-
straint anchorage systems. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
establishes requirements for child re-
straint anchorage systems to ensure 
their proper location and strength for 
the effective securing of child re-
straints, to reduce the likelihood of the 
anchorage systems’ failure, and to in-
crease the likelihood that child re-
straints are properly secured and thus 
more fully achieve their potential ef-
fectiveness in motor vehicles. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars; to trucks and multi-
purpose passenger vehicles with a gross 
vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 3,855 
kilograms (8,500 pounds) or less; and to 


## Page 2

1139 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
buses (including school buses) with a 
GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less. 
This standard does not apply to walk- 
in van-type vehicles, vehicles manufac-
tured to be sold exclusively to the U.S. 
Postal Service, shuttle buses, and fu-
neral coaches. 
S3. Definitions. 
Child restraint anchorage means any 
vehicle component, other than Type I 
or Type II seat belts, that is involved 
in transferring loads generated by a 
child restraint system to the vehicle 
structure. 
Child restraint anchorage system means 
a vehicle system that is designed for 
attaching a child restraint system to a 
vehicle at a particular designated seat-
ing position, consisting of: 
(a) Two lower anchorages meeting 
the requirements of S9; and 
(b) A tether anchorage meeting the 
requirements of S6. 
Child restraint fixture (CRF) means the 
fixture depicted in Figures 1 and 2 of 
this standard that simulates the di-
mensions of a child restraint system, 
and that is used to determine the space 
required by the child restraint system 
and the location and accessibility of 
the lower anchorages. 
Funeral coach means a vehicle that 
contains only a front row of occupant 
seats, is designed exclusively for trans-
porting a body and casket and that is 
equipped with features to secure a cas-
ket in place during operation of the ve-
hicle. 
Rear designated seating position means 
any designated seating position (as 
that term is defined at § 571.3) that is 
rearward of the front seats(s). 
Seat bight means the area close to and 
including the intersection of the sur-
faces of the vehicle seat cushion and 
the seat back. 
SFAD 1 means Static Force Applica-
tion Device 1 shown in Figures 12 to 16 
of this standard. 
SFAD 2 means Static Force Applica-
tion Device 2 shown in Figures 17 and 
18 of this standard. 
Shuttle bus means a bus with only one 
row of forward-facing seating positions 
rearward of the driver’s seat or, for a 
vehicle 
without 
manually 
operated 
controls, means a bus with only one 
row of forward-facing seating positions 
rearward of all front row passenger 
seats. 
Tether anchorage means a user-ready, 
permanently installed vehicle system 
that transfers loads from a tether strap 
through the tether hook to the vehicle 
structure and that accepts a tether 
hook. 
Tether strap means a strap that is se-
cured to the rigid structure of the seat 
back of a child restraint system, and is 
connected to a tether hook that trans-
fers the load from that system to the 
tether anchorage. 
Tether hook means a device, illus-
trated in Figure 11 of Standard No. 213 
(§ 571.213), used to attach a tether strap 
to a tether anchorage. 
S4. General vehicle requirements. 
S4.1
Each 
tether 
anchorage 
and 
each child restraint anchorage system 
installed, either voluntarily or pursu-
ant to this standard, in any new vehi-
cle manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 1999, shall comply with the 
configuration, location, marking and 
strength requirements of this standard. 
The vehicle shall be delivered with 
written information, in English, on 
how to appropriately use those anchor-
ages and systems. 
S4.2
For passenger cars manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 1999 and 
before September 1, 2000, not less than 
80 percent of the manufacturer’s aver-
age annual production of vehicles (not 
including convertibles), as set forth in 
S13, shall be equipped with a tether an-
chorage as specified in paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) of S4.2, except as provided in 
S5. 
(a) Each vehicle with three or more 
forward-facing rear designated seating 
positions shall be equipped with a teth-
er anchorage conforming to the re-
quirements of S6 at no fewer than 
three forward-facing rear designated 
seating positions. The tether anchor-
age of a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem may count towards the three re-
quired tether anchorages. In each vehi-
cle with a forward-facing rear des-
ignated seating position other than an 
outboard designated seating position, 
at least one tether anchorage (with or 
without the lower anchorages of a child 
restraint anchorage system) shall be at 
such a designated seating position. In a 
vehicle with three or more rows of 


## Page 3

1140 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
seating positions, at least one of the 
tether anchorages (with or without the 
lower anchorages of a child restraint 
anchorage system) shall be installed at 
a forward-facing seating position in the 
second row if such a forward-facing 
seating position is available in that 
row. 
(b) Each vehicle with not more than 
two 
forward-facing 
rear 
designated 
seating positions shall be equipped 
with a tether anchorage conforming to 
the requirements of S6 at each forward- 
facing rear designated seating position. 
The tether anchorage of a child re-
straint anchorage system may count 
toward the required tether anchorages. 
(c) Each vehicle without any forward- 
facing rear designated seating position 
shall be equipped with a tether anchor-
age conforming to the requirements of 
S6 at each front forward-facing pas-
senger seating position. 
S4.3
Each vehicle manufactured on 
or after September 1, 2000 and before 
September 1, 2002, shall be equipped as 
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
S4.3, except as provided in S5. 
(a) A specified percentage of each 
manufacturer’s yearly production, as 
set forth in S14, shall be equipped as 
follows: 
(1) Each vehicle with three or more 
forward-facing rear designated seating 
positions shall be equipped with a child 
restraint anchorage system conforming 
to the requirements of S9 at not fewer 
than 
two 
forward-facing 
rear 
des-
ignated seating positions. In a vehicle 
with three or more rows of seating po-
sitions, at least one of the child re-
straint anchorage systems shall be at a 
forward-facing seating position in the 
second row if such a forward-facing 
seating position is available in that 
row. 
(2) Each vehicle with not more than 
two 
forward-facing 
rear 
designated 
seating positions shall be equipped 
with a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem conforming to the requirements of 
S9 at each forward-facing rear des-
ignated seating position. 
(b) Each vehicle, including a vehicle 
that is counted toward the percentage 
of a manufacturer’s yearly production 
required to be equipped with child re-
straint anchorage systems, shall be 
equipped as described in S4.3(b)(1), (2) 
or (3), subject to S13. 
(1) Each vehicle with three or more 
forward-facing rear designated seating 
positions shall be equipped with a teth-
er anchorage conforming to the re-
quirements of S6 at no fewer than 
three forward-facing rear designated 
seating positions. The tether anchor-
age of a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem may count towards the three re-
quired tether anchorages. In each vehi-
cle with a forward-facing rear des-
ignated seating position other than an 
outboard designated seating position, 
at least one tether anchorage (with or 
without the lower anchorages of a child 
restraint anchorage system) shall be at 
such a designated seating position. In a 
vehicle with three or more rows of 
seating positions, at least one of the 
tether anchorages (with or without the 
lower anchorages of a child restraint 
anchorage system) shall be installed at 
a forward-facing seating position in the 
second row if such a forward-facing 
seating position is available in that 
row. 
(2) Each vehicle with not more than 
two 
forward-facing 
rear 
designated 
seating positions shall be equipped 
with a tether anchorage conforming to 
the requirements of S6 at each forward- 
facing rear designated seating position. 
The tether anchorage of a child re-
straint anchorage system may count 
toward the required tether anchorages. 
(3) Each vehicle without any forward- 
facing rear designated seating position 
shall be equipped with a tether anchor-
age conforming to the requirements of 
S6 at each front passenger seating posi-
tion. 
S4.4
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after 
September 
1, 
2002 
shall 
be 
equipped as specified in paragraphs (a) 
through (c) of S4.4, except as provided 
in S5. 
(a) Each vehicle with three or more 
forward-facing rear designated seating 
positions shall be equipped as specified 
in S4.4(a)(1) and (2). 
(1) Each vehicle shall be equipped 
with a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem conforming to the requirements of 
S9 at not fewer than two forward-fac-
ing rear designated seating positions. 
At least one of the child restraint an-
chorage systems shall be installed at a 


## Page 4

1141 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
forward-facing seating position in the 
second row in each vehicle that has 
three or more rows, if such a forward- 
facing seating position is available in 
that row. 
(2) Each vehicle shall be equipped 
with a tether anchorage conforming to 
the requirements of S6 at a third for-
ward-facing rear designated seating po-
sition. The tether anchorage of a child 
restraint anchorage system may count 
towards the third required tether an-
chorage. In each vehicle with a for-
ward-facing rear designated seating po-
sition other than an outboard des-
ignated seating position, at least one 
tether anchorage (with or without the 
lower anchorages of a child restraint 
anchorage system) shall be at such a 
designated seating position. 
(b) Each vehicle with not more than 
two 
forward-facing 
rear 
designated 
seating positions shall be equipped 
with a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem conforming to the requirements of 
S9 at each forward-facing rear des-
ignated seating position. 
(c) Each vehicle without any forward- 
facing rear designated seating position 
shall be equipped with a tether anchor-
age conforming to the requirements of 
S6 at each front forward-facing pas-
senger seating position. 
S4.5
As an alternative to complying 
with the requirements of S4.2 through 
S4.4 that specify the number of tether 
anchorages that are required in a vehi-
cle and the designated seating posi-
tions for which tether anchorages must 
be provided, a vehicle manufactured 
from September 1, 1999 to August 31, 
2004 may, at the manufacturer’s option 
(with said option irrevocably selected 
prior to, or at the time of, certification 
of the vehicle), meet the requirements 
of this S4.5. This alternative ceases to 
be available on and after September 1, 
2004. A tether anchorage conforming to 
the requirements of S6 must be in-
stalled— 
(a) For each designated seating posi-
tion, other than that of the driver, in a 
vehicle that has only one row of des-
ignated seating positions; 
(b) For each forward-facing des-
ignated seating position in the second 
row of seating positions in a passenger 
car or truck; 
(c) For each of any two forward-fac-
ing designated seating positions in the 
second row of seating positions in a 
multipurpose passenger vehicle that 
has five or fewer designated seating po-
sitions; and, 
(d) For each of any three forward-fac-
ing designated seating positions that 
are located to the rear of the first row 
of designated seating positions in a 
multipurpose passenger vehicle that 
has six or more designated seating po-
sitions. 
S4.6
Adjustable seats. (a) A vehicle 
that is equipped with a forward-facing 
rear designated seating position that 
can be relocated such that it is capable 
of being used at either an outboard or 
non-outboard 
forward-facing 
seating 
position shall be considered as having a 
forward-facing 
non-outboard 
seating 
position. Such an adjustable seat must 
be equipped with a tether anchorage 
(with or without the lower anchorages 
of a child restraint anchorage system) 
if the vehicle does not have another 
forward-facing 
non-outboard 
seating 
position that is so equipped. 
(b) Tether and lower anchorages shall 
be available for use at all times, except 
when the seating position for which it 
is installed is not available for use be-
cause the vehicle seat has been re-
moved or converted to an alternate use 
such as the carrying of cargo. 
S5.
General exceptions. 
(a) Convertibles and school buses are 
excluded from the requirements to be 
equipped with tether anchorages. 
(b) A vehicle may be equipped with a 
built-in child restraint system con-
forming to the requirements of Stand-
ard No. 213 (49 CFR 571.213) instead of 
one of the required tether anchorages 
or child restraint anchorage systems. 
(c)(1) Each vehicle that— 
(i) Does not have a rear designated 
seating position and that thus meets 
the conditions in S4.5.4.1(a) of Standard 
No. 208 (§ 571.208); and 
(ii) Has an air bag on-off switch 
meeting the requirements of S4.5.4 of 
Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208), shall have a 
child restraint anchorage system for a 
designated passenger seating position 
in the front seat, instead of only a 
tether 
anchorage. 
In 
the 
case 
of 
convertibles, the front designated pas-
senger seating position need have only 


## Page 5

1142 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
the two lower anchorages meeting the 
requirements of S9 of this standard. 
(iii) For vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2002, each vehicle 
that does not have a rear designated 
seating position, and does not have an 
air bag installed at front passenger des-
ignated seating positions pursuant to a 
temporary 
exemption 
granted 
by 
NHTSA under 49 CFR Part 555, must 
have a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem installed at a front passenger des-
ignated seating position. In the case of 
convertibles, the front designated pas-
senger seating position need have only 
the two lower anchorages meeting the 
requirements of S9 of this standard. 
(2) Each vehicle that— 
(i) Has a rear designated seating posi-
tion and meets the conditions in 
S4.5.4.1(b) 
of 
Standard 
No. 
208 
(§ 571.208); and, 
(ii) Has an air bag on-off switch 
meeting the requirements of S4.5.4 of 
Standard 208 (§ 571.208), shall have a 
child restraint anchorage system for a 
designated passenger seating position 
in the front seat, instead of a child re-
straint anchorage system that is re-
quired for the rear seat. In the case of 
convertibles, the front designated pas-
senger seating position need have only 
the two lower anchorages meeting the 
requirements of S9 of this standard. 
(iii) For vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2002, each vehicle 
that has a rear designated seating posi-
tion and meets the conditions in 
S4.5.4.1(b) 
of 
Standard 
No. 
208 
(§ 571.208), and does not have an air bag 
installed at front passenger designated 
seating positions pursuant to a tem-
porary exemption granted by NHTSA 
under 49 CFR Part 555, must have a 
child restraint anchorage system in-
stalled at a front passenger designated 
seating position in place of one of the 
child restraint anchorage systems that 
is required for the rear seat. In the case 
of convertibles, the front designated 
passenger seating position need have 
only the two lower anchorages meeting 
the requirements of S9 of this stand-
ard. 
(d) A vehicle that does not have an 
air bag on-off switch meeting the re-
quirements of S4.5.4 of Standard No. 
208 (§ 571.208), shall not have any child 
restraint anchorage system installed at 
a front designated seating position. 
(e) A vehicle with a rear designated 
seating position for which interference 
with transmission and/or suspension 
components prevents the location of 
the lower bars of a child restraint an-
chorage system anywhere within the 
zone described by S9.2 or S15.1.2.2(b) 
such 
that 
the 
attitude 
angles 
of 
S15.1.2.2(a) could be met, is excluded 
from the requirement to provide a 
child restraint anchorage system at 
that position. However, except as pro-
vided elsewhere in S5 of this standard, 
for vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2001, such a vehicle must 
have a tether anchorage at a front pas-
senger designated seating position. 
S6. Requirements for tether anchorages. 
S6.1
Configuration of the tether an-
chorage. Each tether anchorage shall: 
(a) Permit the attachment of a tether 
hook of a child restraint system meet-
ing the configuration and geometry 
specified in Figure 11 of Standard No. 
213 (§ 571.213); 
(b) Be accessible without the need for 
any tools other than a screwdriver or 
coin; 
(c) Once accessed, be ready for use 
without the need for any tools; and 
(d) Be sealed to prevent the entry of 
exhaust fumes into the passenger com-
partment. 
S6.2
Location of the tether anchorage. 
A vehicle manufactured on or after 
September 1, 1999 and before September 
1, 2004 may, at the manufacturer’s op-
tion (with said option irrevocably se-
lected prior to, or at the time of, cer-
tification of the vehicle), meet the re-
quirements of S6.2.1 or S6.2.2. Vehicles 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
2004 must meet the requirements of 
S6.2.1 of this standard. 
S6.2.1
Subject 
to 
S6.2.1.1 
and 
S6.2.1.2, the part of each tether anchor-
age that attaches to a tether hook 
must be located within the shaded zone 
shown in Figures 3 to 7 of this standard 
of the designated seating position for 
which it is installed. The zone is de-
fined with reference to the seating ref-
erence point (see § 571.3). (For purposes 
of the figures, ‘‘H Point’’ is defined to 
mean seating reference point.) A tether 
anchorage may be recessed in the seat 
back, provided that it is not in the 


## Page 6

1143 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
strap wrap-around area at the top of 
the vehicle seat back. For the area 
under 
the 
vehicle 
seat, 
the 
forwardmost edge of the shaded zone is 
defined by the torso line reference 
plane. 
S6.2.1.1
In the case of passenger cars 
and multipurpose passenger vehicles 
manufactured before September 1, 2004, 
the part of each user-ready tether an-
chorage that attaches to a tether hook 
may, at the manufacturer’s option 
(with said option selected prior to, or 
at the time of, certification of the ve-
hicle), instead of complying with S6.2.1, 
be located within the shaded zone 
shown in Figures 8 to 11 of this stand-
ard of the designated seating position 
for which it is installed, relative to the 
shoulder reference point of the three 
dimensional H-point machine described 
in section 3.1 of SAE Standard J826– 
1992 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5) such that— 
(a) The H-point of the three dimen-
sional H-point machine is located— 
(1) At the actual H-point of the seat, 
as defined in section 2.2.11.3 of SAE 
Recommended Practice J1100–1993 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5), at 
the full rearward and downward posi-
tion of the seat; or 
(2) In the case of a designated seating 
position that has a child restraint an-
chorage 
system, 
midway 
between 
vertical longitudinal planes passing 
through the lateral center of the bar in 
each of the two lower anchorages of 
that system; and 
(b) The back pan of the H-point ma-
chine is at the same angle to the 
vertical as the vehicle seat back with 
the seat adjusted to its full rearward 
and full downward position and the 
seat back in its most upright position. 
S6.2.1.2
In the case of a vehicle 
that— 
(a) Has a user-ready tether anchorage 
for which no part of the shaded zone 
shown in Figures 3 to 7 of this standard 
of the designated seating position for 
which the anchorage is installed is ac-
cessible without removing a seating 
component of the vehicle; and 
(b) Has a tether strap routing device 
that is— 
(1) Not less than 65 mm behind the 
torso line for that seating position, in 
the case of a flexible routing device or 
a deployable routing device, measured 
horizontally and in a vertical longitu-
dinal plane; or 
(2) Not less than 100 mm behind the 
torso line for that seating position, in 
the case of a fixed rigid routing device, 
measured horizontally and in a vertical 
longitudinal plane, the part of that an-
chorage that attaches to a tether hook 
may, at the manufacturer’s option 
(with said option selected prior to, or 
at the time of, certification of the ve-
hicle) be located outside that zone. 
(c) The measurement of the location 
of the flexible or deployable routing de-
vice described in S6.2.1.2(b)(1) is made 
with SFAD 2 properly attached to the 
lower anchorages. A 40 mm wide nylon 
tether strap is routed through the rout-
ing device and attached to the tether 
anchorage in accordance with the writ-
ten instructions required by S12 of this 
standard. The forwardmost contact 
point between the strap and the rout-
ing device must be within the stated 
limit when the tether strap is flat 
against the top surface of the SFAD 
and tensioned to 55 to 65 N. In seating 
positions without lower anchorages of 
a child restraint anchorage system, the 
SFAD 2 is held with its central lateral 
plane in the central vertical longitu-
dinal plane of the seating position. The 
adjustable anchor attaching bars of the 
SFAD 2 are replaced by spacers that 
end flush with the back surface of the 
SFAD. 
S6.2.2
Subject 
to 
S6.2.2.1 
and 
S6.2.2.2, the portion of each user-ready 
tether anchorage that is designed to 
bind with a tether strap hook shall be 
located within the shaded zone shown 
in Figures 3 to 7 of this standard of the 
designated seating position for which it 
is installed, with reference to the H- 
point of a template described in section 
3.1 of SAE Standard J826–1992 (incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5), if: 
(a) The H-point of the template is lo-
cated— 
(1) At the unique Design H-point of 
the designated seating position, as de-
fined in section 2.2.11.1 of SAE Rec-
ommended Practice J1100–1993 (incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5), at the 
full downward and full rearward posi-
tion of the seat, or— 
(2) In the case of a designated seating 
position that has a means of affixing 


## Page 7

1144 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
the lower portion of a child restraint 
system to the vehicle, other than a ve-
hicle seat belt, midway between the 
two lower restraint system anchorages; 
(b) The torso line of the template is 
at the same angle to the transverse 
vertical plane as the vehicle seat back 
with the seat adjusted to its full rear-
ward and full downward position and 
the seat back in its most upright posi-
tion; and 
(c) The template is positioned in the 
vertical longitudinal plane that con-
tains the H-point of the template. 
S6.2.2.1
In passenger cars and multi-
purpose passenger vehicles manufac-
tured before September 1, 2004, the por-
tion of each user-ready tether anchor-
age to which a tether strap hook at-
taches may be located within the 
shaded zone shown in Figures 8 to 11 of 
the designated seating position for 
which it is installed, with reference to 
the shoulder reference point of a tem-
plate described in section 3.1 of SAE 
Standard J826–1992 (incorporated by 
reference, see § 571.5), if: 
(a) The H-point of the template is lo-
cated— 
(1) At the unique Design H-point of 
the designated seating position, as de-
fined in section 2.2.11.1 of SAE Rec-
ommended Practice J1100–1993 (incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5), at the 
full downward and full rearward posi-
tion of the seat, or— 
(2) In the case of a designated seating 
position that has a means of affixing 
the lower portion of a child restraint 
system to the vehicle, other than a ve-
hicle seat belt, midway between the 
two lower restraint system anchorages; 
(b) The torso line of the template is 
at the same angle to the vertical plane 
as the vehicle seat back with the seat 
adjusted to its full rearward and full 
downward position and the seat back in 
its most upright position; and 
(c) The template is positioned in the 
vertical longitudinal plane that con-
tains the H-point of the template. 
S6.2.2.2
The portion of a user-ready 
tether anchorage in a vehicle that is 
designed to bind with the tether strap 
hook may be located outside the 
shaded zone referred to in S6.2.2, if no 
part of the shaded zone is accessible 
without removing a seating component 
of the vehicle and the vehicle is 
equipped with a routing device that— 
(a) Ensures that the tether strap 
functions as if the portion of the an-
chorage designed to bind with the teth-
er strap hook were located within the 
shaded zone; 
(b) Is at least 65 mm behind the torso 
line, in the case of a non-rigid-webbing- 
type routing device or a deployable 
routing device, or at least 100 mm be-
hind the torso line, in the case of a 
fixed rigid routing device; and 
(c) When tested after being installed 
as it is intended to be used, is of suffi-
cient strength to withstand, with the 
user-ready tether anchorage, the load 
referred to in S6.3.4 or S6.3.4.1, as appli-
cable. 
S6.3
Strength requirements for tether 
anchorages. Subject to S6.3.2, a vehicle 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
1999, and before September 1, 2004 may, 
at the manufacturer’s option (with said 
option irrevocably selected prior to, or 
at the time of, certification of the ve-
hicle), meet the requirements of S6.3.1 
or S6.3.4. Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2004 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2005 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3.1 of this standard, except 
as provided in S16 of this standard. Ve-
hicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2005 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3.1. 
S6.3.1
Subject to S6.3.2, when tested 
in accordance with S8, after preloading 
the device with a force of 500 N, the 
tether anchorage must not separate 
completely from the vehicle seat or 
seat anchorage or the structure of the 
vehicle. 
S6.3.2
In vehicles manufactured be-
fore September 1, 2004, each user-ready 
tether anchorage in a row of designated 
seating positions in a passenger car 
may, at the manufacturer’s option 
(with said option selected prior to, or 
at the time of, certification of the ve-
hicle), instead of complying with S6.3.1, 
withstand the application of a force of 
5,300 N, when tested in accordance with 
S8.2, such that the anchorage does not 
release the belt strap specified in S8.2 
or allow any point on the tether an-
chorage to be displaced more than 125 
mm. 


## Page 8

1145 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
S6.3.3
Provisions for simultaneous and 
sequential testing. (a) In the case of ve-
hicle seat assemblies equipped with 
more than one tether anchorage sys-
tem, the force referred to in S6.3.1 and 
S6.3.2 may, at the agency’s option, be 
applied simultaneously to each of those 
tether anchorages. However, that force 
may not be applied simultaneously to 
tether anchorages for any two adjacent 
seating positions whose midpoints are 
less than 400 mm apart, as measured in 
accordance with S6.3.3(a)(1) and (2) and 
Figure 20. 
(1) The midpoint of the seating posi-
tion lies in the vertical longitudinal 
plane that is equidistant from vertical 
longitudinal planes through the geo-
metric center of each of the two lower 
anchorages at the seating position. For 
those seating positions that do not pro-
vide lower anchorages, the midpoint of 
the seating position lies in the vertical 
longitudinal plane that passes through 
the SgRP of the seating position. 
(2) Measure the distance between the 
vertical longitudinal planes passing 
through the midpoints of the adjacent 
seating positions, as measured along a 
line perpendicular to the planes. 
(b) A tether anchorage of a particular 
child restraint anchorage system will 
not be tested with the lower anchor-
ages of that anchorage system if one or 
both of those lower anchorages have 
been 
previously 
tested 
under 
this 
standard. 
S6.3.4
Subject to subsections S6.3.4.1 
and S6.3.4.2, every user-ready tether 
anchorage in a row of designated seat-
ing positions shall, when tested, with-
stand the application of a force of 
10,000 N— 
(a) Applied by means of one of the 
following types of test devices, in-
stalled as a child restraint system 
would be installed in accordance with 
the 
manufacturer’s 
installation 
in-
structions, namely, 
(1) SFAD 1, to test a tether anchor-
age at a designated seating position 
that does not have a child restraint an-
chorage system; or 
(2) SFAD 2, to test a tether anchor-
age at a designated seating position 
that has a child restraint anchorage 
system; 
(b) Applied— 
(1) In a forward direction parallel to 
the 
vehicle’s 
vertical 
longitudinal 
plane through the X point on the test 
device, and, 
(2) Initially, along a horizontal line 
or along any line below or above that 
line that is at an angle to that line of 
not more than 5 degrees; 
(c) Approximately linearly over a 
time, at the option of the vehicle man-
ufacturer, of not more than 30 seconds, 
at any onset force rate of not more 
than 135 000 N/s; and 
(d) Maintained at a 10,000 N level for 
one second. 
S6.3.4.1
In a passenger car manufac-
tured before September 1, 2004, every 
user-ready tether anchorage in a row of 
designated 
seating 
positions 
must, 
when tested, subject to subsection 
S6.3.4.2, withstand the application of a 
force of 5,300 N, which force must be— 
(a) Applied by means of a belt strap 
that— 
(1) Extends not less than 250 mm for-
ward from the vertical plane touching 
the rear top edge of the vehicle seat 
back, 
(2) Is fitted at one end with suitable 
hardware for applying the force and at 
the other end with a bracket for the at-
tachment of the user-ready tether an-
chorage, and 
(3) Passes over the top of the vehicle 
seat back as shown in Figure 19 of this 
standard; 
(b) Applied— 
(1) In a forward direction parallel to 
the 
vehicle’s 
longitudinal 
vertical 
plane, and 
(2) Initially, along a horizontal line 
or along any line below that line that 
is at an angle to that line of not more 
than 20 degrees; 
(c) Attained within 30 seconds, at any 
onset force rate of not more than 
135,000 N/s; and 
(d) Maintained at a 5,300 N level for 
one second. 
S6.3.4.2
If the zones in which tether 
anchorages are located overlap and if, 
in the overlap area, a user-ready tether 
anchorage is installed that is designed 
to accept the tether strap hooks of two 
restraint systems simultaneously, both 
portions of the tether anchorage that 
are designed to bind with a tether strap 
hook shall withstand the force referred 
to in subsection S6.3.4 or S6.3.4.1, as the 


## Page 9

1146 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
case may be, applied to both portions 
simultaneously. 
S6.3.4.3
Provisions 
for 
simultaneous 
and sequential testing. (a) In the case of 
vehicle seat assemblies equipped with 
more than one tether anchorage sys-
tem, the force referred to in S6.3.4, 
6.3.4.1 or S6.3.4.2 may, at the agency’s 
option, be applied simultaneously to 
each of those tether anchorages. How-
ever, that force may not be applied si-
multaneously to tether anchorages for 
any two adjacent seating positions 
whose midpoints are less than 400 mm 
apart, as measured in accordance with 
S6.3.4.3(a)(1) and (2) and Figure 20. 
(1) The midpoint of the seating posi-
tion lies in the vertical longitudinal 
plane that is equidistant from vertical 
longitudinal planes through the geo-
metric center of each of the two lower 
anchorages at the seating position. For 
those seating positions that do not pro-
vide lower anchorages, the midpoint of 
the seating position lies in the vertical 
longitudinal plane that passes through 
the SgRP of the seating position. 
(2) Measure the distance between the 
vertical longitudinal planes passing 
through the midpoints of the adjacent 
seating positions, as measured along a 
line perpendicular to the planes. 
(b) A tether anchorage of a particular 
child restraint anchorage system will 
not be tested with the lower anchor-
ages of that anchorage system if one or 
both of those lower anchorages have 
been 
previously 
tested 
under 
this 
standard. 
S6.3.4.4
The strength requirement 
tests shall be conducted with the vehi-
cle seat adjusted to its full rearward 
and full downward position and the 
seat back in its most upright position. 
When SFAD 2 is used in testing and 
cannot be attached to the lower an-
chorages with the seat back in this po-
sition, adjust the seat back as rec-
ommended by the manufacturer in its 
instructions for attaching child re-
straints. If no instructions are pro-
vided, adjust the seat back to the posi-
tion that enables SFAD 2 to attach to 
the lower anchorages that is the clos-
est to the most upright position. 
S7. Test conditions for testing tether an-
chorages. 
The test conditions described in para-
graphs (a) and (b) of S7 apply to the 
test procedures in S8. 
(a) Vehicle seats are adjusted to their 
full rearward and full downward posi-
tion and the seat back is placed in its 
most upright position. When SFAD 2 is 
used in testing and cannot be attached 
to the lower anchorages with the seat 
back in this position, adjust the seat 
back as recommended by the manufac-
turer in its instructions for attaching 
child restraints. If no instructions are 
provided, adjust the seat back to the 
position that enables SFAD 2 to attach 
to the lower anchorages that is the 
closest to the most upright position. 
(b) Head restraints are adjusted in 
accordance with the manufacturer’s in-
structions, provided pursuant to S12, as 
to how the head restraints should be 
adjusted when using the child restraint 
anchorage system. If instructions with 
regard to head restraint adjustment 
are not provided pursuant to S12, the 
head restraints are adjusted to any po-
sition. 
S8
Test 
procedures. 
Each 
vehicle 
shall meet the requirements of S6.3.1 
and S6.3.3 when tested according to the 
following procedures. Where a range of 
values is specified, the vehicle shall be 
able to meet the requirements at all 
points within the range. For the test-
ing specified in these procedures, the 
SFAD used in the test has a tether 
strap consisting of webbing material 
with an elongation limit of 4 percent at 
a tensile load of 65,000 N (14,612 lb). Pre-
tension the tether strap with 53.5 N to 
67 N of preload prior to the test. The 
strap is fitted at one end with a high 
strength steel tether hook for attach-
ment to the tether anchorage. The 
tether hook meets the specifications in 
Standard No. 213 (49 CFR § 571.213) as to 
the configuration and geometry of 
tether hooks required by the standard. 
A steel cable is connected to the X 
point through which the test force is 
applied. 
S8.1
Apply the force specified in 
S6.3.1 as follows— 
(a) Use the following specified test 
device, as appropriate: 
(1) SFAD 1, to test a tether anchor-
age at a designated seating position 
that does not have a child restraint an-
chorage system; or, 


## Page 10

1147 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
(2) SFAD 2, to test a tether anchor-
age at a designated seating position 
that has a child restraint anchorage 
system. 
(b) Attach the SFAD 1 to the vehicle 
seat using the vehicle belts or the 
SFAD 2 to the lower anchorages of the 
child restraint anchorage system, as 
appropriate, and attach the test device 
to the tether anchorage, in accordance 
with the manufacturer’s instructions 
provided pursuant to S12 of this stand-
ard. For the testing specified in this 
procedure, if SFAD 1 cannot be at-
tached using the vehicle belts because 
of the location of the vehicle belt buck-
le, the test device is attached by mate-
rial whose breaking strength is equal 
to 
or 
greater 
than 
the 
breaking 
strength of the webbing for the seat 
belt assembly installed as original 
equipment at that seating position. 
The geometry of the attachment dupli-
cates the geometry, at the pre-load 
point, of the attachment of the origi-
nally installed seat belt assembly. All 
belt systems (including the tether) 
used to attach the test device are 
tightened to a tension of not less than 
53.5 N and not more than 67 N on the 
webbing portion of the belt. For SFAD 
1, apply a rearward force of 135 N ±15 N, 
in a horizontal plane through point 
‘‘X’’ of SFAD 1. While maintaining the 
force, tighten the vehicle seat belt to a 
tension of not less than 53.5 N and not 
more than 67 N measured at the lap 
portion of the seat belt and maintain 
the tension during the preload, lock 
the seat belt retractor, and tighten the 
tether belt strap to remove all slack. A 
rearward force of 135 N ±15 N is applied 
to the center of the lower front cross-
member of SFAD 2 to press the device 
against the seat back as the fore-aft 
position of the rearward extensions of 
the SFAD is adjusted to remove any 
slack or tension. 
(c) Apply the force— 
(1) Initially, in a forward direction in 
a 
vertical 
longitudinal 
plane 
and 
through the Point X on the test device; 
and 
(2) Initially, along a line through the 
X point and at an angle of 10 ±5 degrees 
above the horizontal. Apply a preload 
force of 500 N to measure the angle; and 
then 
(3) Increase the pull force as linearly 
as practicable to a full force applica-
tion of 15,000 N in not less than 24 sec-
onds and not more than 30 seconds, and 
maintain at a 15,000 N level for 1 sec-
ond. 
S8.2
Apply the force specified in 
S6.3.2 as follows: 
(a) Attach a belt strap, and tether 
hook, to the user-ready tether anchor-
age. The belt strap extends not less 
than 250 mm forward from the vertical 
transverse plane touching the rear top 
edge of the vehicle seat back, and 
passes over the top of the vehicle seat 
back as shown in Figure 19 of this 
standard; 
(b) Apply the force at the end of the 
belt strap— 
(1) Initially, in a forward direction in 
a vertical longitudinal plane that is 
parallel to the vehicle’s longitudinal 
centerline; 
(2) Initially, along a horizontal line 
or along any line below or above that 
line that is at an angle to that line of 
not more than 20 degrees; 
(3) So that the force is attained with-
in 30 seconds, at any onset rate of not 
more than 135,000 N/s; and 
(4) Maintained at a 5,300 N level for a 
minimum of 1 second. 
S9
Requirements for the lower anchor-
ages of the child restraint anchorage sys-
tem. As an alternative to complying 
with the requirements of S9, a vehicle 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
1999 and before September 1, 2004 may, 
at the manufacturer’s option (with said 
option irrevocably selected prior to, or 
at the time of, certification of the ve-
hicle), meet the requirements in S15 of 
this standard. Vehicles manufactured 
on or after September 1, 2004 and before 
September 1, 2005 must meet all of the 
requirements of S9 of this standard, ex-
cept as provided in S16 of this standard 
with regard to S9.4. Vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2005 
must meet all the requirements of S9 
of this standard. 
S9.1
Configuration of the lower an-
chorages 
S9.1.1
The lower anchorages shall 
consist of two bars that— 
(a) Are 6 mm ±.1 mm in diameter; 
(b) 
Are 
straight, 
horizontal 
and 
transverse; 
(c) As shown in Figure 21, are: 


## Page 11

1148 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
(i) Not less than 25 mm in length, and 
(ii) Are not more than 60 mm in 
length between the anchor bar supports 
or other structural members of the ve-
hicle that restrict lateral movement of 
the components of a child restraint 
that are designed to attach to the bars, 
measured in a vertical plane 7 mm 
rearward of the vertical plane that is 
tangent of the rearward face of the an-
chor bar. 
(d) For bars installed in vehicles 
manufactured on or after March 1, 2005, 
the bars must not be capable of being 
stowable 
(foldable 
or 
otherwise 
stowable). 
(e) [Reserved] 
(f) Are part of the vehicle, such that 
they can only be removed by use of a 
tool, such as a screwdriver or wrench; 
and 
(g) Are rigidly attached to the vehi-
cle such that they will not deform 
more than 5 mm when subjected to a 
100 N force in any direction. 
S9.2
Location of the lower anchorages. 
S9.2.1
The anchorage bars are lo-
cated at the vehicle seating position by 
using the CRF rearward extensions, 
with the CRF placed against or near 
the vehicle seat back. With the CRF at-
tached to the anchorages and resting 
on the seat cushion, the bottom surface 
shall have attitude angles within the 
limits in the following table, angles 
measured relative to the vehicle hori-
zontal, longitudinal and transverse ref-
erence planes. 
TABLE TO S9.2.1 
Pitch .......................................................................
15° ±10° 
Roll .........................................................................
0° ±5° 
Yaw ........................................................................
0° ±10° 
NOTE: An explanation of the above angles is given in Figure 
1. 
S9.2.2
With 
adjustable 
seats 
ad-
justed as described in S9.2.3, each lower 
anchorage bar shall be located so that 
a vertical transverse plane tangent to 
the front surface of the bar is: 
(a) Not more than 70 mm behind the 
corresponding point Z of the CRF, 
measured parallel to the bottom sur-
face of the CRF and in a vertical longi-
tudinal plane, while the CRF is pressed 
against the seat back by the rearward 
application of a horizontal force of 100 
N at point A on the CRF; and 
(b) Not less than 120 mm behind the 
vehicle seating reference point, meas-
ured horizontally and in a vertical lon-
gitudinal plane. 
S9.2.3
Adjustable seats are adjusted 
as follows: 
(a) Place adjustable seat backs in the 
manufacturer’s nominal design riding 
position in the manner specified by the 
manufacturer; and 
(b) Place adjustable seats in the full 
rearward and full downward position. 
S9.3
Adequate fit of the lower anchor-
ages. Each vehicle and each child re-
straint anchorage system in that vehi-
cle shall be designed such that the CRF 
can be placed inside the vehicle and at-
tached to the lower anchorages of each 
child restraint anchorage system, with 
adjustable seats adjusted as described 
in S9.3(a) and (b). 
(a) Place adjustable seat backs in the 
manufacturer’s nominal design riding 
position in the manner specified by the 
manufacturer; and 
(b) Place adjustable seats in the full 
rearward and full downward position. 
(c) To facilitate installation of the 
CRF in a vehicle seat, the side, back 
and top frames of the CRF may be re-
moved for installation in the vehicle, 
as indicated in Figure 1A of this stand-
ard. If necessary, the height of the CRF 
may be 560 mm. 
S9.4
Strength of the lower anchorages. 
S9.4.1
When tested in accordance 
with S11, the lower anchorages shall 
not allow point X on SFAD 2 to be dis-
placed horizontally more than the dis-
tances specified below, after preloading 
the device— 
(a) 175 mm, when a force of 11,000 N is 
applied in a forward direction in a 
vertical longitudinal plane; and 
(b) 150 mm, for lower anchorages 
when a force of 5,000 N is applied in a 
lateral direction in a vertical longitu-
dinal plane that is 75 ±5 degrees to ei-
ther side of a vertical longitudinal 
plane. 
S9.4.1.1
Forces described in S9.4.1(a), 
forward direction, shall be applied with 
an initial force application angle of 10 
±5 degrees above the horizontal. Forces 
described in S9.4.1(b), lateral direction, 
shall be applied horizontally (0 ±5 de-
grees). 


## Page 12

1149 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
S9.4.1.2
The amount of displacement 
is measured relative to an undisturbed 
point on the vehicle body. 
S9.4.2
Provisions for simultaneous and 
sequential testing. (a) In the case of ve-
hicle seat assemblies equipped with 
more than one child restraint anchor-
age system, the lower anchorages may, 
at the agency’s option, be tested simul-
taneously. However, forces may not be 
applied simultaneously for any two ad-
jacent 
seating 
positions 
whose 
midpoints are less than 400 mm apart, 
as 
measured 
in 
accordance 
with 
S9.4.2(a)(1) and (2) and Figure 20. 
(1) The midpoint of the seating posi-
tion lies in the vertical longitudinal 
plane that is equidistant from vertical 
longitudinal planes through the geo-
metric center of each of the two lower 
anchorages at the seating position. 
(2) Measure the distance between the 
vertical longitudinal planes passing 
through the midpoints of the adjacent 
seating positions, as measured along a 
line perpendicular to the planes. 
(b) The lower anchorages of a par-
ticular child restraint anchorage sys-
tem will not be tested if one or both of 
the anchorages have been previously 
tested under this standard. 
S9.5
Marking and conspicuity of the 
lower anchorages. Each vehicle shall 
comply with S9.5(a) or (b). 
(a) Above each bar installed pursuant 
to S4, the vehicle shall be permanently 
marked with a circle: 
(1) That is not less than 13 mm in di-
ameter; 
(2) That is either solid or open, with 
or without words, symbols or picto-
grams, provided that if words, symbols 
or pictograms are used, their meaning 
is explained to the consumer in writ-
ing, such as in the vehicle’s owners 
manual; and 
(3) That is located such that its cen-
ter is on each seat back between 50 and 
100 mm above or on the seat cushion 
100 ±25 mm forward of the intersection 
of the vertical transverse and hori-
zontal longitudinal planes intersecting 
at the horizontal centerline of each 
lower anchorage, as illustrated in Fig-
ure 22. The center of the circle must be 
in the vertical longitudinal plane that 
passes through the center of the bar 
(±25 mm). 
(4) The circle may be on a tag. 
(b) The vehicle shall be configured 
such that the following is visible: Each 
of the bars installed pursuant to S4, or 
a permanently attached guide device 
for each bar. The bar or guide device 
must be visible without the compres-
sion of the seat cushion or seat back, 
when the bar or device is viewed, in a 
vertical 
longitudinal 
plane 
passing 
through the center of the bar or guide 
device, along a line making an upward 
30 degree angle with a horizontal plane. 
Seat backs are in the nominal design 
riding position. The bars may be cov-
ered by a removable cap or cover, pro-
vided that the cap or cover is perma-
nently marked with words, symbols or 
pictograms whose meaning is explained 
to the consumer in written form as 
part of the owner’s manual. 
S10. Test conditions for testing the 
lower anchorages. The test conditions 
described in this paragraph apply to 
the test procedures in S11. 
(a) Adjust vehicle seats to their full 
rearward and full downward position 
and place the seat backs in their most 
upright position. When SFAD 2 is used 
in testing and cannot be attached to 
the lower anchorages with the seat 
back in this position, adjust the seat 
back as recommended by the manufac-
turer in its instructions for attaching 
child restraints. If no instructions are 
provided, adjust the seat back to the 
position closest to the upright position 
that enables SFAD 2 to attach to the 
lower anchorages. 
(b) Head restraints are adjusted in 
accordance with the manufacturer’s in-
structions, provided pursuant to S12, as 
to how the head restraints should be 
adjusted when using the child restraint 
anchorage system. If instructions with 
regard to head restraint adjustment 
are not provided pursuant to S12, the 
head restraints are adjusted to any po-
sition. 
S11. Test procedure. Each vehicle shall 
meet the requirements of S9.4 when 
tested according to the following pro-
cedures. Where a range of values is 
specified, the vehicle shall be able to 
meet the requirements at all points 
within the range. 
(a) Forward force direction. Place 
SFAD 2 in the vehicle seating position 
and attach it to the two lower anchor-
ages of the child restraint anchorage 


## Page 13

1150 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
system. Do not attach the tether an-
chorage. A rearward force of 135 ±15 N 
is applied to the center of the lower 
front crossbar of SFAD 2 to press the 
device against the seat back as the 
fore-aft position of the rearward exten-
sions of the SFAD is adjusted to re-
move any slack or tension. Apply a 
preload force of 500 N at point X of the 
test device. Increase the pull force as 
linearly as practicable to a full force 
application of 11,000 N in not less than 
24 seconds and not more than 30 sec-
onds, and maintain at an 11,000 N level 
for 1 second. 
(b) Lateral force direction. Place SFAD 
2 in the vehicle seating position and at-
tach it to the two lower anchorages of 
the child restraint anchorage system. 
Do not attach the tether anchorage. A 
rearward force of 135 ±15 N is applied to 
the center of the lower front crossbar 
of SFAD 2 to press the device against 
the seat back as the fore-aft position of 
the rearward extensions of the SFAD is 
adjusted to remove any slack or ten-
sion. Apply a preload force of 500 N at 
point X of the test device. Increase the 
pull force as linearly as practicable to 
a full force application of 5,000 N in not 
less than 24 seconds and not more than 
30 seconds, and maintain at a 5,000 N 
level for 1 second. 
S12. Written instructions. The vehicle 
must provide written instructions, in 
English, for using the tether anchor-
ages and the child restraint anchorage 
system in the vehicle. If the vehicle 
has an owner’s manual, the instruc-
tions must be in that manual. The in-
structions shall: 
(a) Indicate which seating positions 
in the vehicle are equipped with tether 
anchorages and child restraint anchor-
age systems; 
(b) In the case of vehicles required to 
be marked as specified in paragraphs 
S4.1, S9.5(a), or S15.4, explain the 
meaning of markings provided to lo-
cate the lower anchorages of child re-
straint anchorage systems; and 
(c) Include instructions that provide 
a step-by-step procedure, including dia-
grams, for properly attaching a child 
restraint system’s tether strap to the 
tether anchorages. 
S13. Tether anchorage phase-in require-
ments. 
S13.1
Passenger cars manufactured 
on or after September 1, 1999 and before 
September 1, 2000 shall comply with 
S13.1.1 through S13.2. At anytime dur-
ing the production year ending August 
31, 2000, each manufacturer shall, upon 
request from the Office of Vehicle Safe-
ty Compliance, provide information 
identifying the passenger cars (by 
make, model and vehicle identification 
number) that have been certified as 
complying with the tether anchorage 
requirements of this standard. The 
manufacturer’s designation of a pas-
senger car as a certified vehicle is ir-
revocable. 
S13.1.1
Subject to S13.2, for pas-
senger cars manufactured on or after 
September 1, 1999 and before September 
1, 2000, the number of vehicles com-
plying with S4.2 shall be not less than 
80 percent of: 
(a) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of passenger cars man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 1996 
and before September 1, 1999; or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production of 
passenger cars manufactured on or 
after September 1, 1999 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2000. 
S13.1.2
For the purpose of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S13.1.1, a ve-
hicle produced by more than one manu-
facturer shall be attributed to a single 
manufacturer as provided in S13.1.2(a) 
through (c), subject to S13.2. 
(a) A vehicle which is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer which markets the vehicle. 
(c) A vehicle produced by more than 
one manufacturer must be attributed 
to any one of the vehicle’s manufactur-
ers specified by an express written con-
tract, reported to the National High-
way 
Traffic 
Safety 
Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S13.1.2(a) 
or (b). 
S13.2
For the purposes of calcu-
lating average annual production of 


## Page 14

1151 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
passenger cars for each manufacturer 
and the number of passenger cars man-
ufactured by each manufacturer under 
S13.1, each passenger car that is ex-
cluded from the requirement to provide 
tether anchorages is not counted. 
S13.3 Until May 1, 2001, vehicles man-
ufactured by a final-stage manufac-
turer or alterer need not be equipped 
with the tether anchorages required by 
S4.3 of this standard. Vehicles manu-
factured by a final-stage manufacturer 
or alterer on or after May 1, 2001 must 
be equipped with the tether anchorages 
specified in S4.3. 
S14. Lower anchorages phase-in re-
quirements for vehicles manufactured on 
or after September 1, 2000 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2002. 
S14.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2000 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2002 shall comply with S14.1.1 
through S14.1.2. At anytime during the 
production years ending August 31, 
2001, and August 31, 2002, each manufac-
turer shall, upon request from the Of-
fice of Vehicle Safety Compliance, pro-
vide information identifying the vehi-
cles (by make, model and vehicle iden-
tification number) that have been cer-
tified as complying with the child re-
straint anchorage requirements of this 
standard. The manufacturer’s designa-
tion of a vehicle as a certified vehicle 
is irrevocable. 
S14.1.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2000 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2001. Subject to S14.4, for vehi-
cles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2000 and before September 1, 
2001, the number of vehicles complying 
with S4.3 shall be not less than 20 per-
cent of: 
(a) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 1997 and 
before September 1, 2000; or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2000 and before 
September 1, 2001. 
S14.1.2
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2001 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2002. Subject to S14.4, for vehi-
cles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2001 and before September 1, 
2002, the number of vehicles complying 
with S4.3 shall be not less than 50 per-
cent of: 
(a) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 1998 and 
before September 1, 2001; or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2001 and before 
September 1, 2002. 
S14.2
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S14.2.1
For the purpose of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each 
manufacturer 
under 
S14.1.1 
through S14.1.2, a vehicle produced by 
more than one manufacturer shall be 
attributed to a single manufacturer as 
follows, subject to S14.2.2. 
(a) A vehicle which is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer which markets the vehicle. 
S14.2.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer must be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S14.2.1. 
S14.3
Alternative phase-in schedules. 
(a) 
Final-stage 
manufacturers 
and 
alterers. A final-stage manufacturer or 
alterer may, at its option, comply with 
the requirements set forth in S14.3(a)(1) 
and (2), instead of the requirements set 
forth in S14.1.1 through S14.1.2. 
(1) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2000 and before September 
1, 2002 are not required to be equipped 
with the lower anchorages specified in 
this standard. 
(2) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2002 must be equipped 
with the lower anchorages specified in 
this standard. 
(b) Small volume manufacturers. Vehi-
cles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2000 and before September 1, 
2002 that are manufactured by a manu-
facturer that produces fewer than 5,000 
vehicles worldwide annually are not re-
quired to provide the lower anchorages 
specified in this standard. 


## Page 15

1152 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
S14.4
For the purposes of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S14.1.1 and 
S14.1.2, each vehicle that is excluded 
from the requirement to provide child 
restraint anchorage systems is not 
counted. 
S15 Alternative to complying with the 
requirements of S9. As an alternative to 
complying with the requirements of S9, 
a vehicle manufactured on or after 
September 1, 1999 and before September 
1, 2004 may, at the manufacturer’s op-
tion (with said option irrevocably se-
lected prior to, or at the time of, cer-
tification of the vehicle), meet the re-
quirements in S15 of this standard. Ve-
hicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2004 must meet the require-
ments of S9 of this standard. 
S15.1
Dimensions and installation re-
quirements. 
S15.1.1
General. The vehicle anchor-
ages are positioned near the seat bight. 
The location of the anchorages is de-
fined with respect to the CRF. If the 
vehicle seat is adjustable, it is adjusted 
as recommended by the vehicle manu-
facturer for use with child restraint 
systems. 
S15.1.2
Anchorage dimensions and lo-
cation. 
S15.1.2.1
The lower anchorages shall 
consist of two bars that— 
(a) Are 6 mm ±.1 mm in diameter; 
(b) 
Are 
straight, 
horizontal 
and 
transverse; 
(c) Are not less than 25 mm in length; 
(d)–(e) [Reserved] 
(f) Are permanently attached to the 
vehicle or vehicle seat such that they 
can only be removed by use of a tool, 
such as a screwdriver or wrench. 
S15.1.2.2
(a) The anchorage bars are 
located at the vehicle seating position 
with the aid of and with respect to the 
CRF rearward extensions, with the 
CRF placed against or near the vehicle 
seat back. With the CRF attached to 
the anchorages and resting on the seat 
cushion, the bottom surface shall have 
attitude angles within the limits in the 
following table, angles measured rel-
ative to the vehicle horizontal, longitu-
dinal and transverse reference planes. 
TABLE TO S15.1.2.2(a) 
Pitch ....................................................
15° ±10° 
Roll ......................................................
0° ±5° 
Yaw .....................................................
0° ±10° 
NOTE: An explanation of the above angles is given in Fig-
ure 1. 
(b) With adjustable seats adjusted as 
described in S15.1.2.2(c), each lower an-
chorage bar shall be located so that a 
vertical transverse plane intersecting 
the center of the bar is: 
(1) Not more than 70 mm behind 
point Z of the CRF, measured parallel 
to the bottom surface of the CRF and 
to the center of the bar, with the CRF 
rear surface against the seat back; and 
(2) Not less than 120 mm behind the 
vehicle seating reference point, meas-
ured horizontally and to the center of 
the bar. (NOTE: To facilitate installa-
tion of the CRF in a vehicle seat, the 
CRF may be constructed of smaller 
separable parts and assembled in the 
vehicle 
seat. 
Alternatively, 
vehicle 
components may be removed to allow 
access.) 
(c) Adjustable seats are adjusted as 
recommended by the vehicle manufac-
turer for use with child restraint sys-
tems. 
S15.2
Static Strength Requirements. 
S15.2.1
The strength of the anchor-
ages shall be determined using the pro-
cedure of S15.3 to apply forces to the 
SFAD 2, installed in the vehicle seat-
ing position and engaged with the an-
chorages. The vehicle seat shall be in-
stalled in the vehicle, or in sufficient 
parts of the vehicle so as to be rep-
resentative of the strength and rigidity 
of the vehicle structure. If the seat is 
adjustable, it shall be placed in the po-
sition recommended by the vehicle 
manufacturer for use with child re-
straint systems. If no adjusted position 
is recommended, the seat shall be 
placed in any position, at the agency’s 
option. 
S15.2.2
Horizontal excursion of point 
X during application of the 8 kN and 5 
kN forces must be not more than 125 
mm, after preloading the device. The 
amount of displacement is measured 
relative to an undisturbed point on the 
vehicle body. 
S15.3
Forces and directions. 
S15.3.1
A rearward force of 135 N ±15 
N shall be applied to the center of the 


## Page 16

1153 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
lower front crossbar of SFAD 2 to press 
the device against the seat back as the 
fore-aft position of the rearward exten-
sions of the SFAD is adjusted to re-
move any slack or tension. Forces shall 
be applied to SFAD 2 in forward and 
lateral directions according to the fol-
lowing table. 
TABLE TO S15.3.1—DIRECTIONS OF TEST 
FORCES 
Forward ....
0° ±5° ...................
8 kN ±0.25 
kN 
Lateral ......
75° ±5° (to both 
sides of straight 
forward).
5 kN ±0.25 
kN 
S15.3.2
Forces in the forward direc-
tion shall be applied with an initial 
force application angle of 10 ±5 degrees 
above the horizontal. Lateral forces 
shall be applied horizontally (0° ±5°). A 
pre-load force of 500 N ±25 N shall be 
applied at the prescribed loading point 
(point X) in Figure 17. The force shall 
be increased to 8 kN ±0.25 kN for for-
ward tests, or to 5 kN ±0.25 kN for lat-
eral tests. Full application of the force 
shall be achieved within a time period 
of 2 seconds or less. The force shall be 
maintained for a period of 0.25 seconds 
±0.05 seconds. 
S15.3.3
Provisions 
for 
simultaneous 
and sequential testing. (a) If anchorages 
for more than one child restraint an-
chorage system are installed in the ve-
hicle seat assembly and not directly 
into the vehicle structure, the forces 
described in S15.3 may, at the agency’s 
option, be applied simultaneously to 
SFADs engaged with the anchorages. 
However, that force may not be applied 
simultaneously to SFADs engaged at 
any two adjacent seating positions 
whose midpoints are less than 400 mm 
apart, as measured in accordance with 
S15.3.3(a)(1) and (2) and Figure 20. 
(1) The midpoint of the seating posi-
tion lies in the vertical longitudinal 
plane that is equidistant from vertical 
longitudinal planes through the geo-
metric center of each of the two lower 
anchorages at the seating position. 
(2) Measure the distance between the 
vertical longitudinal planes passing 
through the midpoints of the adjacent 
seating positions, as measured along a 
line perpendicular to the planes. 
(b) The lower anchorages of a par-
ticular child restraint anchorage sys-
tem will not be tested if one or both of 
the anchorages have been previously 
tested under this standard. 
S15.4
Marking and conspicuity of the 
lower anchorages. At least one anchor-
age bar (when deployed for use), one 
guidance fixture, or one seat marking 
feature shall be readily visible to the 
person installing the CRF. If guidance 
fixtures are used to meet this require-
ment, the fixture(s) (although remov-
able) must be installed. Storable an-
chorages shall be provided with a tell- 
tale or label that is visible when the 
anchorage is stored. 
S16. Phase-in of strength requirements 
for vehicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2004 and before September 1, 
2005. At anytime during the production 
year ending August 31, 2005, each man-
ufacturer shall, upon request from the 
Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, 
provide information identifying the ve-
hicles (by make, model and vehicle 
identification number) that have been 
certified as complying with S6.3.1 or 
S6.3.4, and with S9.4 or S15.2 and S15.3. 
The manufacturer’s designation of a 
vehicle as meeting the particular re-
quirement is irrevocable. 
S16.1
Tether anchorage phase-in of 
strength requirements. For vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2004 
and before September 1, 2005, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S6.3.1 
shall be not less than 90 percent of: 
(a) the manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicle manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2001 and 
before September 1, 2004; or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2004 and before 
September 1, 2005. 
S16.2
Lower anchorages phase-in of 
strength requirements. 
For vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2004 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2005, the number of vehicles 
complying with S9.4 shall be not less 
than 90 percent of: 
(a) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicle manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2001 and 
before September 1, 2004; or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2003 and before 
September 1, 2004. 


## Page 17

1154 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 
S16.3
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S16.3.1
For the purpose of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S16.1 and 
S16.2, a vehicle produced by more than 
one manufacturer shall be attributed 
to a single manufacturer as follows, 
subject to S16.3.2. 
(a) A vehicle which is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer that markets the vehicle. 
S16.3.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer must be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S16.3.1. 
S16.4
Alternative phase-in schedules. 
(a) 
Final-stage 
manufacturers 
and 
alterers. A final-stage manufacturer or 
alterer may, at its option, comply with 
the requirements set forth in S16.4(a)(1) 
and (2), instead of the requirements set 
forth in S16.1 through S16.2. 
(1) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2004 and before September 
1, 2005 may meet the requirements of 
S6.3.4 instead of S6.3.1, and may meet 
the requirements of S15.2 and S15.3 in-
stead of S9.4. 
(2) Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2005 must meet the re-
quirements of S6.3.4 and S9.4. 
(b) Small volume manufacturers. Vehi-
cles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2004 and before September 1, 
2005 that are manufactured by a manu-
facturer that produces fewer than 5,000 
vehicles worldwide annually may meet 
the requirements of S6.3.4 instead of 
S6.3.1, and may meet the requirements 
of S15.2 and S15.3 instead of S9.4. Vehi-
cles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2005 must meet the require-
ments of S6.3.4 and S9.4. 


## Page 18

1155 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
FIGURES TO § 571.225 


## Page 19

1156 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 20

1157 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 21

1158 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 22

1159 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 23

1160 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 24

1161 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 25

1162 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 26

1163 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 27

1164 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 28

1165 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 29

1166 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 30

1167 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 31

1168 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 32

1169 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 33

1170 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 34

1171 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 35

1172 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 36

1173 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 


## Page 37

1174 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.225 


## Page 38

1175 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.225 
[64 FR 10823, Mar. 5, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 47587, Aug. 31, 1999; 65 FR 46640, July 31, 2000; 
68 FR 24667, May 8, 2003; 68 FR 38226, June 27, 2003; 69 FR 48823, Aug. 11, 2004; 69 FR 60565, Oct. 
12, 2004; 69 FR 70915, Dec. 8, 2004; 77 FR 768, Jan. 6, 2012; 87 FR 18599, Mar. 30, 2022] 


