## Page 1

764 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.204 
weight rating of 4,536 kg or less manu-
factured on or after September 1, 1981 
shall meet the requirements of S5.1 and 
S5.2. 
S5. Impact protection requirements. 
S5.1
Except as provided in this para-
graph, the steering control system of 
any vehicle to which this standard ap-
plies shall be impacted in accordance 
with S5.1(a). 
(a) When the steering control system 
is impacted by a body block in accord-
ance with SAE Recommended Practice 
J944 JUN80 (incorporated by reference, 
see § 571.5), at a relative velocity of 24 
km/h, the impact force developed on 
the chest of the body block trans-
mitted to the steering control system 
shall not exceed 11,120 N, except for in-
tervals whose cumulative duration is 
not more than 3 milliseconds. 
(b) [Reserved] 
S5.2
The steering control system 
shall be so constructed that no compo-
nents or attachments, including horn 
actuating mechanisms and trim hard-
ware, can catch the driver’s clothing or 
jewelry during normal driving maneu-
vers. 
NOTE: The term jewelry refers to watches, 
rings, and bracelets without loosely attached 
or dangling members. 
[36 FR 22902, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 44 
FR 68475, Nov. 29, 1979; 47 FR 47842, Oct. 28, 
1982; 58 FR 26527, May 4, 1993; 58 FR 63304, 
Dec. 1, 1993; 63 FR 28935, May 27, 1998; 63 FR 
51003, Sept. 24, 1998; 76 FR 762, Jan. 6, 2012; 87 
FR 18588, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.204
Standard No. 204; Steering 
control rearward displacement. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
specifies requirements limiting the 
rearward displacement of the steering 
control into the passenger compart-
ment to reduce the likelihood of chest, 
neck, or head injury. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses. 
However, it does not apply to walk-in 
vans or vehicles without steering con-
trols. 
S3. Definitions. 
Steering column means a structural 
housing that surrounds a steering 
shaft. 
Steering shaft means a component 
that transmits steering torque from 
the steering wheel to the steering gear. 
S4
Requirements. 
S4.1
Vehicles 
manufactured 
before 
September 1, 1991. When a passenger car 
or a truck, bus, or multipurpose pas-
senger vehicle with a gross vehicle 
weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less 
and an unloaded vehicle weight of 4,000 
pounds or less is tested under the con-
ditions of S5 in a 30 mile per hour per-
pendicular impact into a fixed collision 
barrier, the upper end of the steering 
column and shaft in the vehicle shall 
not be displaced more than 5 inches in 
a horizontal rearward direction par-
allel to the longitudinal axis of the ve-
hicle. The amount of displacement 
shall be measured relative to an undis-
turbed point on the vehicle and shall 
represent 
the 
maximum 
dynamic 
movement of the upper end of the 
steering column and shaft during the 
crash test. 
S4.2 Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 1991. When a passenger car 
or a truck, bus or multipurpose pas-
senger vehicle with a gross vehicle 
weight rating of 4,536 kg or less and an 
unloaded vehicle weight of 2,495 kg or 
less is tested under the conditions of S5 
in a 48 km/h perpendicular impact into 
a fixed collision barrier, the upper end 
of the steering column and shaft in the 
vehicle shall not be displaced more 
than 127 mm in a horizontal rearward 
direction parallel to the longitudinal 
axis of the vehicle. The amount of dis-
placement shall be measured relative 
to an undisturbed point on the vehicle 
and shall represent the maximum dy-
namic movement of the upper end of 
the steering column and shaft during 
the crash test. 
S5.
Test 
conditions. 
The 
require-
ments of S4 shall be met when the ve-
hicle is tested in accordance with the 
following conditions. 
S5.1
The vehicle, including test de-
vices and instrumentation, is loaded to 
its unloaded vehicle weight. 
S5.2
Adjustable 
steering 
controls 
are adjusted so that a tilting steering 
wheel hub is at the geometric center of 
the locus it describes when it is moved 
through its full range of driving posi-
tions. A telescoping steering control is 
set at the adjustment position midway 
between 
the 
forwardmost 
and 
rearwardmost position. 


## Page 2

765 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.205 
S5.3
Convertibles 
and 
open-body 
type vehicles have the top, if any, in 
place in the closed passenger compart-
ment configuration. 
S5.4
Doors are fully closed and 
latched but not locked. 
S5.5
The fuel tank is filled to any 
level from 90 to 95 percent of capacity. 
S5.6
The 
parking 
brake 
is 
dis-
engaged and the transmission is in neu-
tral. 
S5.7
Tires are inflated to the vehicle 
manufacturer’s specifications. 
[52 FR 44897, Nov. 23, 1987, as amended at 63 
FR 28935, May 27, 1998; 63 FR 51003, Sept. 24, 
1998; 87 FR 18588, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.205
Standard No. 205, Glazing 
materials. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies re-
quirements for glazing materials for 
use in motor vehicles and motor vehi-
cle equipment. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce injuries resulting 
from impact to glazing surfaces, to en-
sure a necessary degree of trans-
parency in motor vehicle windows for 
driver visibility, and to minimize the 
possibility of occupants being thrown 
through the vehicle windows in colli-
sions. 
S3. Application. 
(a) This standard applies to passenger 
cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, 
trucks designed to carry at least one 
person, buses, motorcycles, slide-in 
campers, pickup covers designed to 
carry persons while in motion and low 
speed vehicles, and to glazing mate-
rials for use in those vehicles. 
(b) For glazing materials manufac-
tured before September 1, 2006, and for 
motor vehicles, slide-in campers and 
pickup covers designed to carry per-
sons while in motion, manufactured be-
fore November 1, 2006, the manufac-
turer may, at its option, comply with 
49 CFR 571.205(a) of this section. 
S4. Definitions. 
Bullet resistant shield means a shield 
or barrier that is installed completely 
inside a motor vehicle behind and sepa-
rate from glazing materials that inde-
pendently comply with the require-
ments of this standard. 
Camper means a structure designed to 
be mounted in the cargo area of a 
truck, or attached to an incomplete ve-
hicle with motive power, for the pur-
pose of providing shelter for persons. 
Glass-plastic glazing material means a 
laminate of one or more layers of glass 
and one or more layers of plastic in 
which a plastic surface of the glazing 
faces inward when the glazing is in-
stalled in a vehicle. 
Pickup cover means a camper having 
a roof and sides but without a floor, de-
signed to be mounted on and removable 
from the cargo area of a truck by the 
user. 
Prime glazing manufacturer means a 
manufacturer that fabricates, lami-
nates, or tempers glazing materials. 
Slide-in camper means a camper hav-
ing a roof, floor, and sides, designed to 
be mounted on and removable from the 
cargo area of a truck by the user. 
S5. Requirements. 
S5.1
Glazing materials for use in 
motor vehicles must conform to ANSI/ 
SAE Z26.1–1996 (incorporated by ref-
erence, see § 571.5), unless this standard 
provides otherwise. SAE Recommended 
Practice J673 (1993) (incorporated by 
reference, see § 571.5) is referenced in 
ANSI/SAE Z26.1–1996. 
S5.1.1
Multipurpose passenger vehi-
cles. Except as otherwise specifically 
provided by this standard, glazing for 
use in multipurpose passenger vehicles 
shall conform to the requirements for 
glazing for use in trucks as specified in 
ANSI/SAE Z26.1–1996 (incorporated by 
reference, see § 571.5). 
S5.1.2
Aftermarket replacement glaz-
ing. Glazing intended for aftermarket 
replacement is required to meet the re-
quirements of this standard or the re-
quirements of 49 CFR 571.205(a) applica-
ble to the glazing being replaced. 
S5.1.3
Location of arrow within ‘‘AS’’ 
markings. In ANSI/SAE Z26.1–1996 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5) 
Section 7. ‘‘Marking of Safety Glazing 
Materials,’’ on page 33, in the right col-
umn, in the first complete sentence, 
the 
example 
markings 
‘‘AS↓1’’, 
‘‘AS↓14’’ and ‘‘AS↑2’’ are corrected to 
read ‘‘A↓S1’’, ‘‘A↓S14’’ and ‘‘A↑S2’’. 
Note that the arrow indicating the por-
tion of the material that complies with 
Test 2 is placed with its base adjacent 
to a horizontal line. 


