## Page 1

748 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
compliance options for different des-
ignated seating positions to which the 
requirements of this section are appli-
cable. Each manufacturer must, upon 
request from the National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration, provide 
information regarding which of the 
compliance options it has selected for a 
particular vehicle or make/model. 
S5. Demonstration procedures. 
S5.1
Compliance with S4.2(a) of this 
section is demonstrated in accordance 
with the following with the head re-
straint in its fully extended design po-
sition: 
(a) On the exterior profile of the head 
and torso of a dummy having the 
weight and seated height of a 95th per-
centile adult male with an approved 
representation of a human, articulated 
neck structure, or an approved equiva-
lent test device, establish reference 
lines by the following method: 
(1) Position the dummy’s back on a 
horizontal flat surface with the lumbar 
joints in a straight line. 
(2) Rotate the head of the dummy 
rearward until the back of the head 
contacts the flat horizontal surface 
specified in S5.1(a)(1) of this section. 
(3) Position the SAE Standard J826 
JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5) two-dimensional manikin’s back 
against the flat surface specified in 
S5.1(a)(1) of this section, alongside the 
dummy with the H-point of the man-
ikin aligned with the H-point of the 
dummy. 
(4) Establish the torso line of the 
manikin as defined in SAE Aerospace- 
Automotive Drawing Standards (1963) 
(incorporated by reference, see § 571.5), 
sec. 2.3.6, P.E1.01. 
(5) Establish the dummy torso ref-
erence line by superimposing the torso 
line of the manikin on the torso of the 
dummy. 
(6) Establish the head reference line 
by extending the dummy torso ref-
erence line onto the head. 
(b) At each designated seating posi-
tion having a head restraint, place the 
dummy, snugly restrained by Type 2 
seat belt, in the manufacturer’s rec-
ommended design seating position. 
(c) During forward acceleration ap-
plied to the structure supporting the 
seat as described in this paragraph, 
measure the maximum rearward angu-
lar displacement between the dummy 
torso reference line and head reference 
line. When graphically depicted, the 
magnitude of the acceleration curve 
shall not be less than that of a half- 
sine wave having the amplitude of 78 
m/s2 and a duration of 80 milliseconds 
and not more than that of a half-sine 
wave curve having an amplitude of 94 
m/s2 and a duration of 96 milliseconds. 
S5.2
Compliance with S4.2(b) of this 
section is demonstrated in accordance 
with the following with the head re-
straint in its fully extended design po-
sition: 
(a) Place a test device, having the 
back plan dimensions and torso line 
(centerline of the head room probe in 
full back position), of the three dimen-
sional SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5) 
manikin, at the manufacturer’s rec-
ommended design seated position. 
(b) Establish the displaced torso ref-
erence line by applying a rearward mo-
ment of 373 Nm about the seating ref-
erence point to the seat back through 
the test device back pan specified in 
S5.2(a) of this section. 
(c) After removing the back pan, 
using a 165 mm diameter spherical head 
form or cylindrical head form having a 
165 mm diameter in plan view and a 152 
mm height in profile view, apply, per-
pendicular to the displaced torso ref-
erence line, a rearward initial load 64 
mm below the top of the head restraint 
that will produce a 373 Nm moment 
about the seating reference point. 
(d) Gradually increase this initial 
load to 890 N or until the seat or seat 
back fails, whichever occurs first. 
[36 FR 22902, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 54 
FR 39187, Sept. 25, 1989; 61 FR 27025, May 30, 
1996; 63 FR 28935, May 27, 1998; 69 FR 74883, 
Dec. 14, 2005; 72 FR 25514, May 4, 2007; 77 FR 
761, Jan. 6, 2012] 
§ 571.202a
Standard No. 202a; Head re-
straints; 
Mandatory 
applicability 
begins on September 1, 2009. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
specifies requirements for head re-
straints to reduce the frequency and 
severity of neck injury in rear-end and 
other collisions. 
S2
Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars, and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 


## Page 2

749 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less, manu-
factured on or after September 1, 2009. 
However, the standard’s requirements 
for rear head restraints do not apply to 
vehicles 
manufactured 
before 
Sep-
tember 1, 2010, and, for vehicles manu-
factured between September 1, 2010 and 
August 31, 2011, the requirements for 
rear head restraints apply only to the 
extent provided in S7. Until September 
1, 2009, manufacturers may comply 
with the standard in this § 571.202a, 
with the standard in § 571.202, or with 
the European regulations referenced in 
S4.3(a) of § 571.202. For vehicles manu-
factured on or after September 1, 2009 
and before September 1, 2010, manufac-
turers may comply with the standard 
in § 571.202 or with the European regu-
lations referenced in S4.3(a) of § 571.202, 
instead 
of 
the 
standard 
in 
this 
§ 571.202a, only to the extent consistent 
with the phase-in specified in this 
§ 571.202a. 
S3. Definitions. 
Backset means the minimum hori-
zontal distance between the rear of a 
representation of the head of a seated 
50th percentile male occupant and the 
head restraint, as measured by the 
head restraint measurement device. 
Head restraint means a device that 
limits rearward displacement of a seat-
ed occupant’s head relative to the oc-
cupant’s torso. 
Head 
restraint 
measurement 
device 
(HRMD) means the three dimensional 
SAE 
Standard 
J826 
JUL95 
(incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5) man-
ikin with a head form attached, rep-
resenting the head position of a seated 
50th percentile male, with sliding scale 
at the back of the head for the purpose 
of measuring backset. The head form is 
designed by and available from the 
ICBC, 151 West Esplanade, North Van-
couver, 
BC 
V7M 
3H9, 
Canada 
(www.icbc.com). 
Height means, when used in reference 
to a head restraint, the distance from 
the H-point, measured parallel to the 
torso reference line defined by the 
three dimensional SAE Standard J826 
JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5) manikin, to a plane normal to 
the torso reference line. 
Intended for occupant use means, 
when used in reference to the adjust-
ment of a seat, positions other than 
that intended solely for the purpose of 
allowing ease of ingress and egress of 
occupants and access to cargo storage 
areas of a vehicle. 
Rear head restraint means, at any rear 
outboard designated seating position, a 
rear seat back, or any independently 
adjustable seat component attached to 
or adjacent to a seat back, that has a 
height equal to or greater than 700 mm, 
in any position of backset and height 
adjustment, as measured in accordance 
with S5.1.1. 
Top of the head restraint means the 
point on the head restraint with the 
greatest height. 
S4. Requirements. Except as provided 
in S4.4, S4.2.1(a)(2) and S4.2.1(b)(2) of 
this section, each vehicle must comply 
with S4.1 of this section with the seat 
adjusted as intended for occupant use. 
Whenever a range of measurements is 
specified, the head restraint must meet 
the requirement at any position of ad-
justment within the specified range. 
S4.1
Performance levels. In each vehi-
cle other than a school bus, a head re-
straint that conforms to either S4.2 or 
S4.3 of this section must be provided at 
each front outboard designated seating 
position. In each equipped with rear 
outboard head restraints, the rear head 
restraint must conform to either S4.2 
or S4.3 of this section. In each school 
bus, a head restraint that conforms to 
either S4.2 or S4.3 of this section must 
be provided for the driver’s seating po-
sition. At each designated seating posi-
tion incapable of seating a 50th per-
centile male Hybrid III test dummy 
specified in 49 CFR part 572, subpart E, 
the applicable head restraint must con-
form to S4.2 of this section. 
S4.2
Dimensional and static perform-
ance. Each head restraint located in 
the front outboard designated seating 
position and each head restraint lo-
cated in the rear outboard designated 
seating position must conform to para-
graphs S4.2.1 through S4.2.7 of this sec-
tion. Compliance is determined for the 
height requirements of S4.2.1 and the 
backset requirements of S4.2.3 of this 
section by taking the arithmetic aver-
age of three measurements. 
S4.2.1
Minimum height. 
(a) Front outboard designated seating 
positions. (1) Except as provided in 


## Page 3

750 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
S4.2.1(a)(2) of this section, when meas-
ured in accordance with S5.2.1(a)(1) of 
this section, the top of a head restraint 
located in a front outboard designated 
seating position must have a height 
not less than 800 mm in at least one po-
sition of adjustment. 
(2) Exception. The requirements of 
S4.2.1(a)(1) do not apply if the interior 
surface of the vehicle at the roofline 
physically prevents a head restraint, 
located in the front outboard des-
ignated seating position, from attain-
ing the required height. In those in-
stances in which this head restraint 
cannot attain the required height, 
when measured in accordance with 
S5.2.1(a)(2), the maximum vertical dis-
tance between the top of the head re-
straint and the interior surface of the 
vehicle at the roofline must not exceed 
50 mm for convertibles and 25 mm for 
all other vehicles. Notwithstanding 
this exception, when measured in ac-
cordance with S5.2.1(a)(2), the top of a 
head restraint located in a front out-
board designated seating position must 
have a height not less than 700 mm in 
the lowest position of adjustment. 
(b) All outboard designated seating po-
sitions equipped with head restraints. 
(1) Except as provided in S4.2.1(b)(2) 
of this section, when measured in ac-
cordance with S5.2.1(b)(1) of this sec-
tion, the top of a head restraint located 
in an outboard designated seating posi-
tion must have a height not less than 
750 mm in any position of adjustment. 
(2) Exception. The requirements of 
S4.2.1(b)(1) do not apply if the interior 
surface of the vehicle at the roofline or 
the interior surface of the backlight 
physically prevent a head restraint, lo-
cated in the rear outboard designated 
seating position, from attaining the re-
quired height. In those instances in 
which this head restraint cannot attain 
the required height, when measured in 
accordance with S5.2.1(b)(2), the max-
imum vertical distance between the 
top of the head restraint and the inte-
rior surface of the vehicle at the 
roofline or the interior surface of the 
backlight must not exceed 50 mm for 
convertibles and 25 mm for all other 
vehicles. 
S4.2.2
Width. When measured in ac-
cordance with S5.2.2 of this section, 65 
±3 mm below the top of the head re-
straint, the lateral width of a head re-
straint must be not less than 170 mm, 
except the lateral width of the head re-
straint for front outboard designated 
seating positions in a vehicle with a 
front center designated seating posi-
tion, must be not less than 254 mm. 
S4.2.3
Front 
Outboard 
Designated 
Seating Position Backset. When meas-
ured in accordance with S5.2.3 of this 
section, the backset must not be more 
than 55 mm, when the seat is adjusted 
in accordance with S5.1. For adjustable 
restraints, the requirements of this 
section must be met with the top of the 
head restraint in any height position of 
adjustment between 750 mm and 800 
mm, inclusive. If the top of the head 
restraint, in its lowest position of ad-
justment, is above 800 mm, the require-
ments of this section must be met at 
that position. If the head restraint po-
sition is independent of the seat back 
inclination position, the head restraint 
must not be adjusted such that backset 
is more than 55 mm when the seat back 
inclination is positioned closer to 
vertical than the position specified in 
S5.1. 
S4.2.4
Gaps. 
All head restraints must meet limits 
for gaps in the head restraint specified 
in S4.2.4.1. For gaps between the seat 
and head restraint, adjustable head re-
straints must meet either the limits 
specified in S4.2.4.1 or S4.2.4.2. 
S4.2.4.1
Gaps within the head restraint 
and between the head restraint and seat 
using a 165 mm sphere. When measured 
in accordance with S5.2.4.1 of this sec-
tion using the head form specified in 
that paragraph, there must not be any 
gap greater than 60 mm within or be-
tween the anterior surface of the head 
restraint and anterior surface of the 
seat, with the head restraint adjusted 
to its lowest height position and any 
backset position, except as allowed by 
S4.4. 
S4.2.4.2
Gaps between the head re-
straint and seat using a 25 mm cylinder. 
The following option is only available 
to head restraints that can move with 
respect to the seat. When measured in 
accordance with S5.2.4.2 of this section 
using the 25 mm cylinder specified in 
that paragraph, there must not be any 
gap greater than 25 mm between the 
anterior surface of the head restraint 


## Page 4

751 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
and anterior surface of the seat, with 
the head restraint adjusted to its low-
est height position and any backset po-
sition, except as allowed by S4.4. 
S4.2.5
Energy absorption. When the 
anterior surface of the head restraint is 
impacted in accordance with S5.2.5 of 
this section by the head form specified 
in that paragraph at any velocity up to 
and including 24.1 km/h, the decelera-
tion of the head form must not exceed 
785 m/s2 (80 g) continuously for more 
than 3 milliseconds. 
S4.2.6
Height retention. When tested 
in accordance with S5.2.6 of this sec-
tion, the cylindrical test device speci-
fied in S5.2.6(b) must return to within 
13 mm of its initial reference position 
after application of at least a 500 N 
load and subsequent reduction of the 
load to 50 N ±1 N. During application of 
the initial 50 N reference load, as speci-
fied in S5.2.6(b)(2) of this section, the 
cylindrical test device must not move 
downward more than 25 mm. 
S4.2.7
Backset retention, displacement, 
and strength. 
(a) Backset retention and displacement. 
When tested in accordance with S5.2.7 
of this section, the described head form 
must: 
(1) Not be displaced more than 25 mm 
during the application of the initial 
reference moment of 37 ±0.7 Nm; 
(2) Not be displaced more than 102 
mm perpendicularly and posterior of 
the displaced extended torso reference 
line during the application of a 373 ±7.5 
Nm moment about the H-point; and 
(3) Return to within 13 mm of its ini-
tial reference position after the appli-
cation of a 373 ±7.5 Nm moment about 
the H-point and reduction of the mo-
ment to 37 ±0.7 Nm. 
(b) Strength. When the head restraint 
is tested in accordance with S5.2.7(b) of 
this section with the test device speci-
fied in that paragraph, the load applied 
to the head restraint must reach 890 N 
and remain at 890 N for a period of 5 
seconds. 
S4.3
Dynamic performance and width. 
At each forward-facing outboard des-
ignated seating position equipped with 
a head restraint, the head restraint ad-
justed midway between the lowest and 
the highest position of adjustment, and 
at any position of backset adjustment, 
must conform to the following: 
S4.3.1
Injury criteria. When tested in 
accordance with S5.3 of this section, 
during a forward acceleration of the 
dynamic test platform described in 
S5.3.1, the head restraint must: 
(a) Angular rotation. Limit posterior 
angular rotation between the head and 
torso of the 50th percentile male Hy-
brid III test dummy specified in 49 CFR 
part 572, subpart E, fitted with sensors 
to measure rotation between the head 
and torso, to 12 degrees for the dummy 
in all outboard designated seating posi-
tions; 
(b) Head injury criteria. Limit the 
maximum HIC15 value to 500. HIC15 is 
calculated as follows— 
For any two points in time, t1 and t2, 
during the event which are separated 
by not more than a 15 millisecond time 
interval and where t1 is less than t2, 
the head injury criterion (HIC15) is de-
termined using the resultant head ac-
celeration at the center of gravity of 
the dummy head, a r, expressed as a 
multiple of g (the acceleration of grav-
ity) and is calculated using the expres-
sion: 
HIC
t
t
a dt
t
t
r
t
t
=
−
(
)
⎡
⎣
⎢
⎢
⎤
⎦
⎥
⎥
−
(
)
∫
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
.
4.3.2
Width. The head restraint must 
have the lateral width specified in 
S4.2.2 of this section. 
S4.4
Folding or retracting rear head 
restraints non-use positions. A rear head 
restraint may be adjusted to a position 
at which its height does not comply 
with the requirements of S4.2.1 of this 
section. However, in any such position, 
the head restraint must meet either 
S4.4(a), (b) or (c) of this section. 
(a) The head restraint must auto-
matically return to a position in which 
its minimum height is not less than 
that specified in S4.2.1(b) of this sec-
tion when a test dummy representing a 
5th percentile female Hybrid III test 
dummy specified in 49 CFR part 572, 
subpart O is positioned according to 
S5.4(a); or 
(b) The head restraint must, when 
tested in accordance with S5.4(b) of 
this section, be capable of manually ro-
tating forward or rearward by not less 
than 60 degrees from any position of 
adjustment in which its minimum 


## Page 5

752 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
height is not less than that specified in 
S4.2.1(b) of this section. 
(c) The head restraint must, when 
tested in accordance with S5.4(b) of 
this section, cause the torso reference 
line angle to be at least 10 degrees clos-
er to vertical than when the head re-
straint is in any position of adjustment 
in which its height is not less than that 
specified in S4.2.1(b)(1) of this section. 
S4.5
Removability of head restraints. 
The head restraint must not be remov-
able without a deliberate action dis-
tinct from any act necessary for up-
ward adjustment. 
S4.6
Compliance 
option 
selection. 
Where manufacturer options are speci-
fied in this section, the manufacturer 
must select an option by the time it 
certifies the vehicle and may not there-
after select a different option for that 
vehicle. The manufacturer may select 
different compliance options for dif-
ferent designated seating positions to 
which the requirements of this section 
are 
applicable. 
Each 
manufacturer 
must, upon request from the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion, provide information regarding 
which of the compliance options it has 
selected for a particular vehicle or 
make/model. 
S4.7
Information in owner’s manual. 
S4.7.1
The owner’s manual for each 
vehicle must emphasize that all occu-
pants, including the driver, should not 
operate a vehicle or sit in a vehicle’s 
seat until the head restraints are 
placed in their proper positions in 
order to minimize the risk of neck in-
jury in the event of a crash. 
S4.7.2
The owner’s manual for each 
vehicle must— 
(a) Include an accurate description of 
the vehicle’s head restraint system in 
an easily understandable format. The 
owner’s manual must clearly identify 
which seats are equipped with head re-
straints; 
(b) If the head restraints are remov-
able, the owner’s manual must provide 
instructions on how to remove the 
head restraint by a deliberate action 
distinct from any act necessary for up-
ward adjustment, and how to reinstall 
head restraints; 
(c) Warn that all head restraints 
must be reinstalled to properly protect 
vehicle occupants. 
(d) Describe in an easily understand-
able format the adjustment of the head 
restraints and/or seat back to achieve 
appropriate head restraint position rel-
ative to the occupant’s head. This dis-
cussion must include, at a minimum, 
accurate information on the following 
topics: 
(1) A presentation and explanation of 
the main components of the vehicle’s 
head restraints. 
(2) The basic requirements for proper 
head restraint operation, including an 
explanation of the actions that may af-
fect the proper functioning of the head 
restraints. 
(3) The basic requirements for proper 
positioning of a head restraint in rela-
tion to an occupant’s head position, in-
cluding 
information 
regarding 
the 
proper positioning of the center of 
gravity of an occupant’s head or some 
other anatomical landmark in relation 
to the head restraint. 
S5
Procedures. Demonstrate compli-
ance with S4.2 through S4.4 of this sec-
tion as follows. The positions of seat 
adjustment specified in S5 and S5.1 are 
conditions to be met concurrently and 
are not a sequential list of adjust-
ments. Any adjustable lumbar support 
is adjusted to its most posterior nomi-
nal design position. If the seat cushion 
adjusts independently of the seat back, 
position the seat cushion such that the 
highest H-point position is achieved 
with respect to the seat back, as meas-
ured by SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5) 
manikin, with leg length specified in 
S10.4.2.1 of § 571.208 of this Part. If the 
specified position of the H-point can be 
achieved with a range of seat cushion 
inclination angles, adjust the seat in-
clination such that the most forward 
part of the seat cushion is at its lowest 
position with respect to the most rear-
ward part. All tests specified by this 
standard are conducted with the ambi-
ent temperature between 18 degrees C. 
and 28 degrees C. 
S5.1
Except as specified in S5.2.3 and 
S5.3 of this section, if the seat back is 
adjustable, it is set at an initial incli-
nation position closest to the manufac-
turer’s design seat back angle, as meas-
ured by SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5) 


## Page 6

753 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
manikin. If there is more than one in-
clination position closest to the design 
angle, set the seat back inclination to 
the position closest to and rearward of 
the design angle. 
S5.1.1
Procedure for determining pres-
ence of head restraints in rear outboard 
seats. Measure the height of the top of 
a rear seat back or the top of any inde-
pendently adjustable seat component 
attached to or adjacent to the rear seat 
back in its highest position of adjust-
ment using the scale incorporated into 
the SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5) man-
ikin or an equivalent scale, which is 
positioned laterally within 15 mm of 
the centerline of the rear seat back or 
any 
independently 
adjustable 
seat 
component attached to or adjacent to 
the rear seat back. 
S5.2
Dimensional and static perform-
ance procedures. Demonstrate compli-
ance with S4.2 of this section in accord-
ance with S5.2.1 through S5.2.7 of this 
section. Position the SAE Standard 
J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, 
see § 571.5) manikin according to the 
seating procedure found in SAE Stand-
ard J826 JUL95. 
S5.2.1
Procedure for height measure-
ment. Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.2.1 of this section in accordance 
with S5.2.1 (a) and (b) of this section, 
using the headroom probe scale incor-
porated into the SAE Standard J826 
JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5) manikin with the appropriate 
offset for the H-point position or an 
equivalent scale, which is positioned 
laterally within 15 mm of the head re-
straint centerline. If the head restraint 
position is independent of the seat 
back inclination position, compliance 
is determined at a seat back inclina-
tion position closest to the design seat 
back angle, and each seat back inclina-
tion position less than the design seat 
back angle. 
(a)(1) For head restraints in front 
outboard designated seating positions, 
adjust the top of the head restraint to 
the highest position and measure the 
height. 
(2) For head restraints located in the 
front outboard designated seating posi-
tions that are prevented by the interior 
surface of the vehicle at the roofline 
from meeting the required height as 
specified in S4.2.1(a)(1), measure the 
clearance between the top of the head 
restraint and the interior surface of 
the vehicle at the roofline, with the 
seat adjusted to its lowest vertical po-
sition intended for occupant use, by at-
tempting to pass a 25 mm sphere be-
tween them. Adjust the top of the head 
restraint to the lowest position and 
measure the height. 
(b)(1) For head restraints in all out-
board 
designated 
seating 
positions 
equipped with head restraints, adjust 
the top of the head restraint to the 
lowest position other than allowed by 
S4.4 and measure the height. 
(2) For head restraints located in rear 
outboard designated seating positions 
that are prevented by the interior sur-
face of the vehicle at the roofline or 
the 
interior 
surface 
of 
the 
rear 
backlight from meeting the required 
height as specified in S4.2.1(b)(1), meas-
ure the clearance between the top of 
the head restraint or the seat back and 
the interior surface of the vehicle at 
the roofline or the interior surface of 
the rear backlight, with the seat ad-
justed to its lowest vertical position 
intended for occupant use, by attempt-
ing to pass a 25 mm sphere between 
them. 
S5.2.2
Procedure for width measure-
ment. Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.2.2 of this section using calipers to 
measure the maximum dimension per-
pendicular to the vehicle vertical lon-
gitudinal plane of the intersection of 
the head restraint with a plane that is 
normal to the torso reference line of 
SAE 
Standard 
J826 
JUL95 
(incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5) man-
ikin and 65 ±3 mm below the top of the 
head restraint. 
S5.2.3
Procedure for backset measure-
ment. Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.2.3 of this section using the HRMD 
positioned laterally within 15 mm of 
the head restraint centerline. Adjust 
the front head restraint so that its top 
is at any height between and inclusive 
of 750 mm and 800 mm and its backset 
is in the maximum position other than 
allowed by S4.4. If the lowest position 
of adjustment is above 800 mm, adjust 
the head restraint to that position. If 
the head restraint position is inde-
pendent of the seat back inclination 
position, compliance is determined at 


## Page 7

754 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
each seat back inclination position 
closest to and less than the design seat 
back angle. 
S5.2.4
Procedures for gap measure-
ment. 
S5.2.4.1
Procedure using a 165 mm 
sphere. 
Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.4.1 
of this section in accordance with the 
procedures of S5.2.4.1 (a) through (c) of 
this section, with the head restraint 
adjusted to its lowest height position 
and any backset position, except as al-
lowed by S4.4. 
(a) The area of measurement is any-
where on the anterior surface of the 
head restraint or seat with a height 
greater than 540 mm and within the 
following distances from the centerline 
of the seat— 
(1) 127 mm for seats required to have 
254 mm minimum head restraint width; 
and 
(2) 85 mm for seats required to have a 
170 mm head restraint width. 
(b) Applying a load of no more than 5 
N against the area of measurement 
specified in subparagraph (a), place a 
165 ±2 mm diameter spherical head 
form against any gap such that at least 
two points of contact are made within 
the area. The surface roughness of the 
head form is less than 1.6 μm, root 
mean square. 
(c) Determine the gap dimension by 
measuring the vertical straight line 
distance between the inner edges of the 
two furthest contact points, as shown 
in Figures 2, 3 and 4. 
S5.2.4.2
Procedure using a 25 mm 
cylinder. 
Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.4.2 
of this section in accordance with the 
procedures of S5.2.4.2 (a) through (c) of 
this section, with the head restraint 
adjusted to its lowest height position 
and any backset position, except as al-
lowed by S4.4. 
(a) The area of measurement is be-
tween the anterior surface of the head 
restraint and seat with a height great-
er than 540 mm and within the fol-
lowing distances from the centerline of 
the seat— 
(1) 127 mm for seats required to have 
254 mm minimum head restraint width; 
and 
(2) 85 mm for seats required to have a 
170 mm head restraint width. 
(b) Orient a 25 ±1 mm diameter cyl-
inder such that its long axis is perpen-
dicular to the seat back angle and in a 
vertical longitudinal vehicle plane. Ap-
plying a load of no more than 5 N along 
the axis of the cylinder, place the cyl-
inder against any gap within the area 
of measurement specified in subpara-
graph (a). The surface roughness of the 
cylinder is less than 1.6 μm, root mean 
square. 
(c) Determine if at least 125 mm of 
the 
cylinder 
can 
completely 
pass 
through the gap. If 125 mm or more of 
the 
cylinder 
can 
completely 
pass 
through the gap, the gap is not in com-
pliance. 
S5.2.5
Procedures for energy absorp-
tion. 
Demonstrate 
compliance 
with 
S4.2.5 of this section in accordance 
with S5.2.5 (a) through (e) of this sec-
tion, with adjustable head restraints in 
any height and backset position of ad-
justment. 
(a) 
Use 
an 
impactor 
with 
a 
semispherical head form with a 165 ±2 
mm diameter and a surface roughness 
of less than 1.6 μm, root mean square. 
The head form and associated base 
have a combined mass of 6.8 ±0.05 kg. 
(b) Instrument the impactor with an 
acceleration sensing device whose out-
put is recorded in a data channel that 
conforms to the requirements for a 600 
Hz channel class as specified in SAE 
Recommended Practice J211/1 MAR95 
(incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). 
The axis of the acceleration-sensing de-
vice coincides with the geometric cen-
ter of the head form and the direction 
of impact. 
(c) Propel the impactor toward the 
head restraint. At the time of launch, 
the longitudinal axis of the impactor is 
within 2 degrees of being horizontal 
and parallel to the vehicle longitudinal 
axis. The direction of travel is posteri-
orly. 
(d) Constrain the movement of the 
head form so that it travels linearly 
along the path described in S5.2.5(c) of 
this section for not less than 25 mm be-
fore making contact with the head re-
straint. 
(e) Impact the anterior surface of the 
seat or head restraint at any point 
with a height greater than 635 mm and 
within a distance of the head restraint 
vertical centerline of 70 mm. 


## Page 8

755 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
S5.2.6
Procedures for height retention. 
Demonstrate compliance with S4.2.6 of 
this 
section 
in 
accordance 
with 
S5.2.6(a) through (e) of this section. For 
head restraints that move with respect 
to the seat when occupant loading is 
applied to the seat back, S5.2.6(a) 
through (e) may be performed with the 
head restraint fixed in a position cor-
responding to the position when the 
seat is unoccupied. 
(a) Adjust the adjustable head re-
straint so that its top is at any of the 
following 
height 
positions 
at 
any 
backset position— 
(1) For front outboard designated 
seating positions— 
(i) The highest position; and 
(ii) Not less than, but closest to 800 
mm; and 
(2) For rear outboard designated seat-
ing positions equipped with head re-
straints— 
(i) The highest position; and 
(ii) Not less than, but closest to 750 
mm. 
(b)(1) Orient a cylindrical test device 
having a 165 ±2 mm diameter in plan 
view (perpendicular to the axis of revo-
lution), and a 152 mm length in profile 
(through the axis of revolution) with a 
surface roughness of less than 1.6 μm, 
root mean square, such that the axis of 
the revolution is horizontal and in the 
longitudinal vertical plane through the 
longitudinal centerline of the head re-
straint. Position the midpoint of the 
bottom surface of the cylinder in con-
tact with the head restraint. 
(2) Establish initial reference posi-
tion by applying a vertical downward 
load of 50 ±1 N at the rate of 250 ±50 N/ 
minute. Determine the reference posi-
tion after 5.5 ±0.5 seconds at this load. 
(c) Increase the load at the rate of 250 
±50 N/minute to at least 500 N and 
maintain this load for 5.5 ±0.5 seconds. 
(d) Reduce the load at the rate of 250 
±50 N/minute until the load is com-
pletely removed. Maintain this condi-
tion for two minutes ±5 seconds. 
(e) Increase the load at the rate of 250 
±50 N/minute to 50 ±1 N and, after 5.5 
±0.5 seconds at this load, determine the 
position of the cylindrical device with 
respect to its initial reference position. 
S5.2.7
Procedures for backset reten-
tion, displacement, and strength. Dem-
onstrate compliance with S4.2.7 of this 
section in accordance with S5.2.7(a) and 
(b) of this section. The load vectors 
that generate moment on the head re-
straint are initially contained in a 
vertical plane parallel to the vehicle 
longitudinal centerline. 
(a) Backset retention and displacement. 
For head restraints that move with re-
spect to the seat when occupant load-
ing is applied to the seat back, 
S5.2.7(a)(1) through (8) may be per-
formed with the head restraint fixed in 
a position corresponding to the posi-
tion when the seat is unoccupied. This 
fixation is applied to the member(s) 
that first transmit(s) the seat back 
loading from the occupant to the head 
restraint. 
(1) Adjust the head restraint so that 
its top is at a height closest to and not 
less than: 
(i) 800 mm for front outboard des-
ignated seating positions (or the high-
est position of adjustment for head re-
straints subject to S4.2.1(a)(2)); and 
(ii) 750 mm for rear outboard des-
ignated seating positions equipped with 
head restraints (or the highest position 
of adjustment for rear head restraints 
subject to S4.2.1(b)(2)). 
(2) Adjust the head restraint to any 
backset position. 
(3) In the seat, place a test device 
having the back pan dimensions and 
torso reference line (vertical center 
line), when viewed laterally, with the 
head room probe in the full back posi-
tion, of the three dimensional SAE 
Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by 
reference, see § 571.5) manikin; 
(4) Establish the displaced torso ref-
erence line by creating a posterior mo-
ment of 373 ±7.5 Nm about the H-point 
by applying a force to the seat back 
through the back pan at the rate of 187 
±37 Nm/minute. The initial location on 
the back pan of the moment generating 
force vector has a height of 290 mm ±13 
mm. Apply the force vector normal to 
the torso reference line and maintain it 
within 2 degrees of a vertical plane par-
allel to the vehicle longitudinal center-
line. Constrain the back pan to rotate 
about the H-point. Rotate the force 
vector direction with the back pan. 
(5) Maintain the position of the back 
pan as established in S5.2.7(a)(4) of this 
section. Using a 165 ±2 mm diameter 
spherical head form with a surface 


## Page 9

756 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
roughness of less than 1.6 μm, root 
mean square, establish the head form 
initial reference position by aligning 
the centerline of the head form perpen-
dicular to the displaced torso reference 
line, on the seat centerline, and at a 
height 65 ±3 mm below the top of the 
head restraint. Apply a posterior ini-
tial load that will produce a 37 ±0.7 Nm 
moment about the H-point. After main-
taining this moment for 5.5 ±0.5 sec-
onds, measure the posterior displace-
ment of the head form during the appli-
cation of the load. 
(6) Increase the initial load at the 
rate of 187 ±37 Nm/minute until a 373 
±7.5 Nm moment about the H-point is 
produced. Maintain the load level pro-
ducing that moment for 5.5 ±0.5 seconds 
and then measure the posterior dis-
placement of the head form relative to 
the displaced torso reference line. 
(7) Reduce the load at the rate of 187 
±37 Nm/minute until it is completely 
removed. Maintain this condition for 
two minutes ±5 seconds. 
(8) Increase the load at the rate of 187 
±37 Nm/minute until a 37 ±0.7 Nm mo-
ment about the H-point is produced. 
After maintaining the load level pro-
ducing that moment for 5.5 ±0.5 sec-
onds, measure the posterior displace-
ment of the head form position with re-
spect to its initial reference position; 
and 
(b) Strength. Increase the load speci-
fied in S5.2.7(a)(7) of this section at the 
rate of 250 ±50 N/minute to at least 890 
N and maintain this load level for 5.5 
±0.5 seconds. 
S5.3
Procedures for dynamic perform-
ance. Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.3 of this section in accordance with 
S5.3.1 though S5.3.9 of this section with 
a 50th percentile male Hybrid III test 
dummy specified in 49 CFR part 572 
subpart E, fitted with sensors to meas-
ure head to torso rotation. The dummy 
with all sensors is to continue to meet 
all specifications in 49 CFR part 572 
subpart E. The restraint is positioned 
midway between the lowest and the 
highest position of adjustment, and at 
any position of backset. 
S5.3.1
Mount the vehicle on a dy-
namic test platform at the vehicle alti-
tude set forth in S13.3 of § 571.208 of this 
part, so that the longitudinal center-
line of the vehicle is parallel to the di-
rection of the test platform travel and 
so that movement between the base of 
the vehicle and the test platform is 
prevented. Instrument the platform 
with an accelerometer and data proc-
essing system. Position the acceler-
ometer sensitive axis parallel to the di-
rection of test platform travel. 
S5.3.2
Remove 
the 
tires, 
wheels, 
fluids, and all unsecured components. 
Remove or rigidly secure the engine, 
transmission, axles, exhaust, vehicle 
frame and any other vehicle component 
necessary to assure that all points on 
the acceleration vs. time plot meas-
ured by an accelerometer on the dy-
namic test platform fall within the cor-
ridor described in Figure 1 and Table 1. 
S5.3.3
Place any moveable windows 
in the fully open position. 
S5.3.4
Seat Adjustment. The following 
seat adjustments specify conditions to 
be met concurrently and are not a se-
quential list of adjustments. At each 
outboard designated seating position, 
using any control that primarily moves 
the entire seat vertically, place the 
seat in the lowest position. Using any 
control that primarily moves the en-
tire seat in the fore and aft directions, 
place the seat midway between the 
forwardmost and rearmost position. If 
an adjustment position does not exist 
midway between the forwardmost and 
rearmost positions, the closest adjust-
ment position to the rear of the mid-
point is used. Adjust the seat cushion 
and seat back as required by S5 of this 
section. If the seat back is adjustable, 
it is set at an inclination position clos-
est to 25 degrees from the vertical, as 
measured by SAE Standard J826 JUL95 
(incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) 
manikin. If there is more than one in-
clination position closest to 25 degrees 
from the vertical, set the seat back in-
clination to the position closest to and 
rearward of 25 degrees. If the head re-
straint is adjustable, adjust the top of 
the head restraint to a position mid-
way between the lowest position of ad-
justment and the highest position of 
adjustment. If an adjustment position 
midway between the lowest and the 
highest position does not exist, adjust 
the head restraint to a position below 
and nearest to midway between the 
lowest position of adjustment and the 
highest position of adjustment. 


## Page 10

757 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
S5.3.5
Seat Belt Adjustment. Prior to 
placing the Type 2 seat belt around the 
test dummy, fully extend the webbing 
from the seat belt retractor(s) and re-
lease it three times to remove slack. If 
an adjustable seat belt D-ring anchor-
age exists, place it in the adjustment 
position closest to the mid-position. If 
an adjustment position does not exist 
midway between the highest and low-
est position, the closest adjustment po-
sition above the midpoint is used. 
S5.3.6
Dress and adjust each test 
dummy as specified in S8.1.8.2 through 
S8.1.8.3 of § 571.208 of this part. The sta-
bilized test temperature of the test 
dummy is at any temperature level be-
tween 69 degrees F and 72 degrees F, in-
clusive. 
S5.3.7
Test dummy positioning proce-
dure. Place a test dummy at each out-
board 
designated 
seating 
position 
equipped with a head restraint. 
S5.3.7.1
Head. The transverse instru-
mentation platform of the head is level 
within 1⁄2 degree. To level the head of 
the test dummy, the following se-
quence is followed. First, adjust the po-
sition of the H-point within the limits 
set forth in S10.4.2.1 of § 571.208 to level 
the transverse instrumentation plat-
form of the head of the test dummy. If 
the transverse instrumentation plat-
form of the head is still not level, then 
adjust the pelvic angle of the test 
dummy. If the transverse instrumenta-
tion platform of the head is still not 
level, then adjust the neck bracket of 
the dummy the minimum amount nec-
essary from the non-adjusted ‘‘0’’ set-
ting to ensure that the transverse in-
strumentation platform of the head is 
horizontal within 1⁄2 degree. The test 
dummy remains within the limits spec-
ified in S10.4.2.1 of § 571.208 after any 
adjustment of the neck bracket. 
S5.3.7.2
Upper arms and hands. Posi-
tion each test dummy as specified in 
S10.2 and S10.3 of § 571.208 of this part. 
S5.3.7.3
Torso. Position each test 
dummy 
as 
specified 
in 
S10.4.1.1, 
S10.4.1.2, and S10.4.2.1 of § 571.208 of this 
Part, except that the midsagittal plane 
of the dummy is aligned within 15 mm 
of the head restraint centerline. If the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy cannot 
be aligned within 15 mm of the head re-
straint 
centerline 
then 
align 
the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy as 
close as possible to the head restraint 
centerline. 
S5.3.7.4
Legs. 
Position 
each 
test 
dummy as specified in S10.5 of § 571.208 
of this part, except that final adjust-
ment to accommodate placement of 
the feet in accordance with S5.3.7.5 of 
this section is permitted. 
S5.3.7.5
Feet. 
Position 
each 
test 
dummy as specified in S10.6 of § 571.208 
of this part, except that for rear out-
board designated seating positions the 
feet of the test dummy are placed flat 
on the floorpan and beneath the front 
seat as far forward as possible without 
front seat interference. For rear out-
board designated seating positions, if 
necessary, the distance between the 
knees can be changed in order to place 
the feet beneath the seat. 
S5.3.8
Accelerate the dynamic test 
platform to 17.3 ±0.6 km/h. All of the 
points on the acceleration vs. time 
curve fall within the corridor described 
in Figure 1 and Table 1 when filtered to 
channel class 60, as specified in the 
SAE 
Recommended 
Practice 
J211/1 
MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5). Measure the maximum pos-
terior angular displacement. 
S5.3.9
Calculate the angular dis-
placement from the output of instru-
mentation placed in the torso and head 
of the test dummy and an algorithm 
capable of determining the relative an-
gular displacement to within one de-
gree and conforming to the require-
ments of a 600 Hz channel class, as 
specified in SAE Recommended Prac-
tice J211/1 MAR95 (incorporated by ref-
erence, see § 571.5). No data generated 
after 200 ms from the beginning of the 
forward acceleration are used in deter-
mining angular displacement of the 
head with respect to the torso. 
S5.3.10
Calculate the HIC15 from the 
output of instrumentation placed in 
the head of the test dummy, using the 
equation in S4.3.1(b) of this section and 
conforming to the requirements for a 
1000 Hz channel class as specified in 
SAE 
Recommended 
Practice 
J211/1 
MAR95 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5). No data generated after 200 ms 
from the beginning of the forward ac-
celeration are used in determining HIC. 
S5.4
Procedures for folding or re-
tracting head restraints for unoccupied 


## Page 11

758 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 
rear outboard designated seating posi-
tions. 
(a) Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.4 (a) of this section, using a 5th per-
centile female Hybrid III test dummy 
specified in 49 CFR part 572, subpart O, 
in accordance with the following proce-
dure— 
(1) Position the test dummy in the 
seat 
such 
that 
the 
dummy’s 
midsaggital plane is aligned within the 
15 mm of the head restraint centerline 
and is parallel to a vertical plane par-
allel to the vehicle longitudinal center-
line. 
(2) Hold the dummy’s thighs down 
and push rearward on the upper torso 
to maximize the dummy’s pelvic angle. 
(3) Place the legs as close as possible 
to 90 degrees to the thighs. Push rear-
ward on the dummy’s knees to force 
the pelvis into the seat so there is no 
gap between the pelvis and the seat 
back or until contact occurs between 
the back of the dummy’s calves and the 
front of the seat cushion such that the 
angle between the dummy’s thighs and 
legs begins to change. 
(4) Note the position of the head re-
straint. Remove the dummy from the 
seat. If the head restraint returns to a 
retracted position upon removal of the 
dummy, manually place it in the noted 
position. Determine compliance with 
the height requirements of S4.2.1 of 
this section by using the test proce-
dures of S5.2.1 of this section. 
(b) Demonstrate compliance with 
S4.4 (b) of this section in accordance 
with the following procedure: 
(1) Place the rear head restraint in 
any position meeting the requirements 
of S4.2 of this section; 
(2) Strike a line on the head re-
straint. Measure the angle or range of 
angles of the head restraint reference 
line as projected onto a vertical longi-
tudinal vehicle plane. Alternatively, 
measure the torso reference line angle 
with the SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (in-
corporated by reference, see § 571.5) 
manikin; 
(3) Fold or retract the head restraint 
to a position in which its minimum 
height is less than that specified in 
S4.2.1 (b) of this section; 
(4) Determine the minimum change 
in the head restraint reference line 
angle as projected onto a vertical lon-
gitudinal vehicle plane from the angle 
or range of angles measured in 5.4(b)(2). 
Alternatively, determine the change in 
the torso reference line angle with the 
SAE 
Standard 
J826 
JUL95 
(incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5) man-
ikin. 
S6
Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2009, and before September 1, 
2010 (Phase-in of § 571.202a). 
(a) For vehicles manufactured for 
sale in the United States on or after 
September 1, 2009, and before Sep-
tember 1, 2010, a percentage of the 
manufacturer’s production, as specified 
in S6.1, shall meet the requirements 
specified in this § 571.202a without re-
gard to any option to comply with the 
standard in § 571.202 or with the Euro-
pean regulations referenced in S4.3(a) 
of § 571.202. So long as this percentage 
requirement is met, a vehicle may 
comply with the standard in this 
§ 571.202a, with the standard in § 571.202, 
or with the European regulations ref-
erenced in S4.3(a) of § 571.202. 
(b) Notwithstanding S6(a), vehicles 
that are manufactured in two or more 
stages or that are altered (within the 
meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having 
previously been certified in accordance 
with part 567 of this chapter may com-
ply with the standard in this § 571.202a, 
with the standard in § 571.202, or with 
the European regulations referenced in 
S4.3(a) of § 571.202. 
S6.1
Phase-in percentage. For vehi-
cles manufactured by a manufacturer 
on or after September 1, 2009, and be-
fore September 1, 2010, the amount of 
vehicles complying with S6(a) shall be 
not less than 80 percent of: 
(a) If the manufacturer has manufac-
tured vehicles for sale in the United 
States during both of the two produc-
tion years prior to September 1, 2009, 
the manufacturer’s average annual pro-
duction of vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2007, and before Sep-
tember 1, 2010, or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production on 
or after September 1, 2009, and before 
September 1, 2010. 
S6.2
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S6.2.1
For the purpose of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 


## Page 12

759 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer under S6.1, a vehicle pro-
duced by more than one manufacturer 
shall be attributed to a single manufac-
turer as follows, subject to S6.2.2. 
(a) A vehicle that is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer that markets the vehicle. 
S6.2.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer shall be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S6.2.1. 
S7. Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2010, and before September 1, 
2011 (Phase-in of rear seat requirements of 
§ 571.202a). 
(a) For vehicles manufactured for 
sale in the United States on or after 
September 1, 2010, and before Sep-
tember 1, 2011 a percentage of the man-
ufacturer’s 
production 
of 
vehicles 
equipped with rear outboard head re-
straints, as specified in S7.1, shall meet 
the requirements specified in this 
§ 571.202a for rear head restraints. 
(b) Vehicles that are manufactured in 
two or more stages or that are altered 
(within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) 
after having previously been certified 
in accordance with part 567 of this 
chapter are not subject to the require-
ment specified in S7(a). 
S7.1
Phase-in percentage. For vehi-
cles manufactured by a manufacturer 
on or after September 1, 2010, and be-
fore September 1, 2011, the amount of 
vehicles equipped with rear outboard 
head restraints complying with S7(a) 
shall be not less than 80 percent of: 
(a) If the manufacturer has manufac-
tured vehicles for sale in the United 
States during both of the two produc-
tion years prior to September 1, 2010, 
the manufacturer’s average annual pro-
duction of vehicles equipped with rear 
outboard head restraints manufactured 
on or after September 1, 2008, and be-
fore September 1, 2011, or 
(b) The manufacturer’s production of 
vehicles equipped with rear outboard 
head restraints on or after September 
1, 2010, and before September 1, 2011. 
S7.2
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S7.2.1
For the purpose of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer under S7.1, a vehicle pro-
duced by more than one manufacturer 
shall be attributed to a single manufac-
turer as follows, subject to S7.2.2. 
S7.2.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer shall be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S7.2.1. 


## Page 13

760 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 


## Page 14

761 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.202a 


## Page 15

762 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.202a 


## Page 16

763 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.203 
[72 FR 25514, May 4, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 67246, Nov. 2, 2010; 77 FR 761, Jan. 6, 2012] 
§ 571.203
Standard 
No. 
203; 
Impact 
protection for the driver from the 
steering control system. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
specifies requirements for steering con-
trol systems that will minimize chest, 
neck, and facial injuries to the driver 
as a result of impact. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
with a gross vehicle weight rating of 
4,536 kg or less. However, it does not 
apply to vehicles that conform to the 
frontal 
barrier 
crash 
requirements 
(S5.1) of Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 
571.208) by means of other than seat 
belt assemblies. It also does not apply 
to walk-in vans or vehicles without a 
steering control. 
S3. [Reserved] 
S4. Requirements. Each passenger car 
and each multipurpose passenger vehi-
cle, truck and bus with a gross vehicle 


