## Page 1

1032 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
Figure 14a to § 571.213b—HIII–10C Dummy Neck Angle Setting is SP–16 
Degrees 
Figure 14b to § 571.213b—HIII–10C Dummy Lumbar Angle Setting is SP–12 
Degrees 
[88 FR 84591, Dec. 5, 2023] 
§ 571.214
Standard No. 214; Side im-
pact protection. 
S1
Scope and purpose. 
(a) Scope. This standard specifies per-
formance requirements for protection 
of occupants in side impacts. 
(b) Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce the risk of seri-
ous and fatal injury to occupants of 
passenger cars, multipurpose passenger 
vehicles, trucks and buses in side im-
pacts by specifying strength require-
ments for side doors, limiting the 
forces, deflections and accelerations 
measured on anthropomorphic dum-
mies in test crashes, and by other 
means. 
S2
Applicability. This standard ap-
plies to passenger cars, and to multi-
purpose passenger vehicles, trucks de-
signed to carry at least one person and 
buses with a gross vehicle weight rat-
ing (GVWR) of 4,536 kilograms (kg) 


## Page 2

1033 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
(10,000 pounds (lb)) or less, except for 
walk-in vans, or otherwise specified. 
S3
Definitions. 
Contoured means, with respect to a 
door, that the lower portion of its front 
or rear edge is curved upward, typi-
cally to conform to a wheel well. 
Double side doors means a pair of 
hinged doors with the lock and latch 
mechanisms located where the door 
lips overlap. 
Limited line manufacturer means a 
manufacturer that sells three or fewer 
carlines, as that term is defined in 49 
CFR 583.4, in the United States during 
a production year. 
Lowered floor means the replacement 
floor on a motor vehicle whose original 
floor has been removed, in part or in 
total, and replaced by a floor that is 
lower than the original floor. 
Modified roof means the replacement 
roof on a motor vehicle whose original 
roof has been removed, in part or in 
total. 
Raised roof is used as defined in para-
graph S4 of 49 CFR 571.216. 
Walk-in van means a special cargo/ 
mail delivery vehicle that has only one 
designated seating position. That des-
ignated seating position must be for-
ward facing and for use only by the 
driver. The vehicle usually has a thin 
and light sliding (or folding) side door 
for easy operation and a high roof 
clearance that a person of medium 
stature can enter the passenger com-
partment area in an up-right position. 
S4
Requirements. Subject to the ex-
ceptions of S5— 
(a) Passenger cars. Passenger cars 
must meet the requirements set forth 
in S6 (door crush resistance), S7 (mov-
ing deformable barrier test), and S9 
(vehicle-to-pole test), subject to the 
phased-in application of S7 and S9. 
(b) Multipurpose passenger vehicles, 
trucks and buses with a GVWR of 2,722 kg 
or less (6,000 lb or less). Multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
with a GVWR of 2,722 kg or less (6,000 lb 
or less) must meet the requirements 
set forth in S6 (door crush resistance), 
S7 (moving deformable barrier test), 
and S9 (vehicle-to-pole test), subject to 
the phased-in application of S7 and S9. 
(c) Multipurpose passenger vehicles, 
trucks and buses with a GVWR greater 
than 2,722 kg (6,000 lb). Multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kg 
(6,000 lb) must meet the requirements 
set forth in S6 (door crush resistance) 
and S9 (vehicle-to-pole test), subject to 
the phased-in application of S9. 
S5
General exclusions. 
(a) Exclusions from S6 (door crush re-
sistance). A vehicle need not meet the 
requirements of S6 (door crush resist-
ance) for— 
(1) Any side door located so that no 
point on a ten-inch horizontal longitu-
dinal line passing through and bisected 
by the H-point of a manikin placed in 
any seat, with the seat adjusted to any 
position and the seat back adjusted as 
specified in S8.3, falls within the trans-
verse, horizontal projection of the 
door’s opening, 
(2) Any side door located so that no 
point on a ten-inch horizontal longitu-
dinal line passing through and bisected 
by the H–point of a manikin placed in 
any seat recommended by the manufac-
turer for installation in a location for 
which seat anchorage hardware is pro-
vided, with the seat adjusted to any po-
sition and the seat back adjusted as 
specified in S8.3, falls within the trans-
verse, horizontal projection of the 
door’s opening, 
(3) Any side door located so that a 
portion of a seat, with the seat ad-
justed to any position and the seat 
back adjusted as specified in S8.3, falls 
within the transverse, horizontal pro-
jection of the door’s opening, but a lon-
gitudinal vertical plane tangent to the 
outboard side of the seat cushion is 
more than 254 mm (10 inches) from the 
innermost point on the inside surface 
of the door at a height between the H– 
point and shoulder reference point (as 
shown in Figure 1 of Federal Motor Ve-
hicle Safety Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 
571.210)) and longitudinally between the 
front edge of the cushion with the seat 
adjusted to its forwardmost position 
and the rear edge of the cushion with 
the seat adjusted to its rearmost posi-
tion. 
(4) Any side door that is designed to 
be easily attached to or removed (e.g., 
using simple hand tools such as pliers 
and/or a screwdriver) from a motor ve-
hicle manufactured for operation with-
out doors. 


## Page 3

1034 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
(b) Exclusions from S7 (moving deform-
able barrier test). The following vehicles 
are excluded from S7 (moving deform-
able barrier test): 
(1) Motor homes, ambulances and 
other emergency rescue/medical vehi-
cles (including vehicles with fire-fight-
ing equipment), vehicles equipped with 
wheelchair lifts, and vehicles which 
have no doors or exclusively have doors 
that are designed to be easily attached 
or removed so the vehicle can be oper-
ated without doors. 
(2) Passenger cars with a wheelbase 
greater than 130 inches need not meet 
the requirements of S7 as applied to 
the rear seat. 
(3) Passenger cars, multipurpose pas-
senger vehicles, trucks and buses need 
not meet the requirements of S7 (mov-
ing deformable barrier test) as applied 
to the rear seat for side-facing rear 
seats and for rear seating areas that 
are so small that a Part 572 Subpart V 
dummy representing a 5th percentile 
adult female cannot be accommodated 
according to the positioning procedure 
specified in S12.3.4 of this standard. Ve-
hicles that are manufactured before 
September 1, 2010, and vehicles that 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
2010, that are not part of the percent-
age of a manufacturer’s production 
meeting the moving deformable barrier 
test requirements with advanced test 
dummies (S7.2 of this section) or are 
otherwise excluded from the phase-in 
requirements of S7.2, need not meet the 
requirements of the moving deformable 
barrier test as applied to the rear seat 
for rear seating areas that are so small 
that a Subpart F dummy (SID) cannot 
be accommodated according to the po-
sitioning procedure specified in S12.1 of 
this standard. 
(4) Multipurpose passenger vehicles, 
trucks and buses with a GVWR of more 
than 2,722 kg (6,000 lb) need not meet 
the requirements of S7 (moving de-
formable barrier test). 
(c) Exclusions from S9 (vehicle-to-pole 
test). The following vehicles are ex-
cluded from S9 (vehicle-to-pole test) 
(wholly or in limited part, as set forth 
below): 
(1) Motor homes; 
(2) Ambulances and other emergency 
rescue/medical vehicles (including ve-
hicles with fire-fighting equipment) ex-
cept police cars; 
(3) Vehicles with a lowered floor or 
raised or modified roof and vehicles 
that have had the original roof rails re-
moved and not replaced; 
(4) Vehicles in which the seat for the 
driver or any front outboard passenger 
has been removed and wheelchair re-
straints installed in place of the seat 
are excluded from meeting the vehicle- 
to-pole test at that position; and 
(5) Vehicles that have no doors, or ex-
clusively have doors that are designed 
to be easily attached or removed so 
that the vehicle can be operated with-
out doors. 
S6
Door Crush Resistance Require-
ments. Except as provided in section S5, 
each vehicle shall be able to meet the 
requirements of either, at the manufac-
turer’s option, S6.1 or S6.2, when any of 
its side doors that can be used for occu-
pant egress is tested according to pro-
cedures described in S6.3 of this stand-
ard (49 CFR 571.214). 
S6.1
With any seats that may affect 
load upon or deflection of the side of 
the vehicle removed from the vehicle, 
each vehicle must be able to meet the 
requirements of S6.1.1 through S6.1.3. 
S6.1.1
Initial crush resistance. The 
initial crush resistance shall not be 
less than 10,000 N (2,250 lb). 
S6.1.2
Intermediate 
crush 
resist-
ance. The intermediate crush resist-
ance shall not be less than 15,569 N 
(3,500 lb). 
S6.1.3 Peak crush resistance. The peak 
crush resistance shall not be less than 
two times the curb weight of the vehi-
cle or 31,138 N (7,000 lb), whichever is 
less. 
S6.2
With seats installed in the ve-
hicle, and located in any horizontal or 
vertical position to which they can be 
adjusted and at any seat back angle to 
which they can be adjusted, each vehi-
cle must be able to meet the require-
ments of S6.2.1 through S6.2.3. 
S6.2.1
Initial crush resistance. The 
initial crush resistance shall not be 
less than 10,000 N (2,250 lb). 
S6.2.2
Intermediate 
crush 
resist-
ance. The intermediate crush resist-
ance shall not be less than 19,460 N 
(4,375 lb). 
S6.2.3
Peak crush resistance. The 
peak crush resistance shall not be less 


## Page 4

1035 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
than three and one half times the curb 
weight of the vehicle or 53,378 N (12,000 
lb), whichever is less. 
S6.3
Test procedures for door crush re-
sistance. 
The 
following 
procedures 
apply to determining compliance with 
S6.1 and S6.2 of S6, Door crush resistance 
requirements. 
(a) Place side windows in their upper-
most position and all doors in locked 
position. Place the sill of the side of 
the vehicle opposite to the side being 
tested 
against 
a 
rigid 
unyielding 
vertical surface. Fix the vehicle rigidly 
in position by means of tiedown at-
tachments located at or forward of the 
front wheel centerline and at or rear-
ward of the rear wheel centerline. 
(b) Prepare a loading device con-
sisting of a rigid steel cylinder or semi- 
cylinder 305 mm (12 inches) in diameter 
with an edge radius of 13 mm (1⁄2 inch). 
The length of the loading device shall 
be such that— 
(1) For doors with windows, the top 
surface of the loading device is at least 
13 mm (1⁄2 inch) above the bottom edge 
of the door window opening but not of 
a length that will cause contact with 
any structure above the bottom edge of 
the door window opening during the 
test. 
(2) For doors without windows, the 
top surface of the loading device is at 
the same height above the ground as 
when the loading device is positioned 
in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of 
this section for purposes of testing a 
front door with windows on the same 
vehicle. 
(c) Locate the loading device as 
shown in Figure 1 (side view) of this 
section so that— 
(1) Its longitudinal axis is vertical. 
(2) Except as provided in paragraphs 
(c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, its lon-
gitudinal axis is laterally opposite the 
midpoint of a horizontal line drawn 
across the outer surface of the door 127 
mm (5 inches) above the lowest point of 
the door, exclusive of any decorative or 
protective molding that is not perma-
nently affixed to the door panel. 
(i) For contoured doors on trucks, 
buses, and multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 
lb) or less, if the length of the hori-
zontal line specified in this paragraph 
(c)(2) is not equal to or greater than 559 
mm (22 inches), the line is moved 
vertically up the side of the door to the 
point at which the line is 559 mm (22 
inches) long. The longitudinal axis of 
the loading device is then located lat-
erally opposite the midpoint of that 
line. 
(ii) For double side doors on trucks, 
buses, and multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 
lb) or less, its longitudinal axis is lat-
erally opposite the midpoint of a hori-
zontal line drawn across the outer sur-
face of the double door span, 127 mm (5 
inches) above the lowest point on the 
doors, exclusive of any decorative or 
protective molding that is not perma-
nently affixed to the door panel. 
(3) Except as provided in paragraphs 
(c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, its bot-
tom surface is in the same horizontal 
plane as the horizontal line drawn 
across the outer surface of the door 127 
mm (5 inches) above the lowest point of 
the door, exclusive of any decorative or 
protective molding that is not perma-
nently affixed to the door panel. 
(i) For contoured doors on trucks, 
buses, and multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles with a GVWR of 4,536 kg (10,000 
lb) or less, its bottom surface is in the 
lowest horizontal plane such that every 
point on the lateral projection of the 
bottom surface of the device on the 
door is at least 127 mm (5 inches), hori-
zontally and vertically, from any edge 
of the door panel, exclusive of any dec-
orative or protective molding that is 
not permanently affixed to the door 
panel. 
(ii) For double side doors, its bottom 
surface is in the same horizontal plane 
as a horizontal line drawn across the 
outer surface of the double door span, 
127 mm (5 inches) above the lowest 
point of the doors, exclusive of any dec-
orative or protective molding that is 
not permanently affixed to the door 
panel. 
(d) Using the loading device, apply a 
load to the outer surface of the door in 
an inboard direction normal to a 
vertical plane along the vehicle’s longi-
tudinal centerline. Apply the load con-
tinuously such that the loading device 
travel rate does not exceed 12.7 mm (0.5 
inch) per second until the loading de-
vice travels 457 mm (18 inches). Guide 
the loading device to prevent it from 


## Page 5

1036 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
being rotated or displaced from its di-
rection of travel. The test is completed 
within 120 seconds. 
(e) Record applied load versus dis-
placement of the loading device, either 
continuously or in increments of not 
more than 25.4 mm (1 inch) or 91 kg (200 
pounds) for the entire crush distance of 
457 mm (18 inches). 
(f) Determine the initial crush resist-
ance, intermediate crush resistance, 
and peak crush resistance as follows: 
(1) From the results recorded in para-
graph (e) of this section, plot a curve of 
load versus displacement and obtain 
the integral of the applied load with re-
spect to the crush distances specified 
in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this sec-
tion. These quantities, expressed in 
mm-kN (inch-pounds) and divided by 
the specified crush distances, represent 
the average forces in kN (pounds) re-
quired to deflect the door those dis-
tances. 
(2) The initial crush resistance is the 
average force required to deform the 
door over the initial 152 mm (6 inches) 
of crush. 
(3) The intermediate crush resistance 
is the average force required to deform 
the door over the initial 305 mm (12 
inches) of crush. 
(4) The peak crush resistance is the 
largest force recorded over the entire 
457 mm (18-inch) crush distance. 


## Page 6

1037 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
S7
Moving Deformable Barrier (MDB) 
Requirements. Except as provided in sec-
tion S5, when tested under the condi-
tions of S8 each vehicle shall meet S7.3 
and the following requirements in a 53 
±1.0 km/h (33.5 mph) impact in which 
the vehicle is struck on either side by 
a moving deformable barrier. 
S7.1
MDB test with SID. For vehicles 
manufactured before September 1, 2010, 
the following requirements must be 
met. The following requirements also 
apply to vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2010 that are not 
part of the percentage of a manufactur-
er’s production meeting the MDB test 
with advanced test dummies (S7.2 of 
this section) or are otherwise excluded 
from the phase-in requirements of S7.2. 
(Vehicles manufactured before Sep-
tember 1, 2010 may meet S7.2, at the 
manufacturer’s option.) 
S7.1.1
The test dummy specified in 
49 CFR Part 572 Subpart F (SID) is 
placed in the front and rear outboard 
seating positions on the struck side of 
the vehicle, as specified in S11 and S12 
of this standard (49 CFR 571.214). 
S7.1.2
When using the Part 572 Sub-
part F dummy (SID), the following per-
formance requirements must be met. 
(a) Thorax. The Thoracic Trauma 
Index (TTI(d)) shall not exceed: 
(1) 85 g for a passenger car with four 
side doors, and for any multipurpose 
passenger vehicle, truck, or bus; and, 
(2) 90 g for a passenger car with two 
side doors, when calculated in accord-
ance with the following formula: 
TI(d) = 1⁄2(GR + GLS) 
Where the term ‘‘GR’’ is the greater of the 
peak accelerations of either the upper or 
lower rib, expressed in g’s and the term 
‘‘GLS’’ is the lower spine (T12) peak accelera-
tion, expressed in g’s. The peak acceleration 
values are obtained in accordance with the 
procedure specified in S11.5. 
(b) Pelvis. The peak lateral accelera-
tion of the pelvis, as measured in ac-
cordance with S11.5, shall not exceed 
130 g’s. 
S7.2
MDB test with advanced test 
dummies. 
S7.2.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2010 to August 31, 2014. 
(a) Except as provided in S7.2.4 of 
this section, for vehicles manufactured 
on or after September 1, 2010 to August 
31, 2014, a percentage of each manufac-
turer’s 
production, 
as 
specified 
in 
S13.1.1, S13.1.2, S13.1.3, and S13.1.4, 
shall meet the requirements of S7.2.5 
and S7.2.6 when tested with the test 
dummy specified in those sections. Ve-
hicles manufactured before September 
1, 2014 may be certified as meeting the 
requirements of S7.2.5 and S7.2.6. 
(b) For vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2010 that are not 
part of the percentage of a manufactur-
er’s production meeting S7.2.1 of this 
section, the requirements of S7.1 of 
this section must be met. 
(c) Place the Subpart U ES–2re 50th 
percentile male dummy in the front 
seat and the Subpart V SID–IIs 5th per-
centile female test dummy in the rear 
seat. The test dummies are placed and 
positioned in the front and rear out-
board seating positions on the struck 
side of the vehicle, as specified in S11 
and S12 of this standard (49 CFR 
571.214). 
S7.2.2
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2014. 
(a) Subject to S7.2.4 of this section, 
each vehicle manufactured on or after 
September 1, 2014 must meet the re-
quirements of S7.2.5 and S7.2.6, when 
tested with the test dummy specified 
in those sections. 
(b) Place the Subpart U ES–2re 50th 
percentile male dummy in the front 
seat and the Subpart V SID–IIs 5th per-
centile female test dummy in the rear 
seat. The test dummies are placed and 
positioned in the front and rear out-
board seating positions on the struck 
side of the vehicle, as specified in S11 
and S12 of this standard (49 CFR 
571.214). 
S7.2.3 [Reserved] 
S7.2.4
Exceptions 
from 
the 
MDB 
phase-in; special allowances. 
(a)(1) Vehicles that are manufactured 
by an original vehicle manufacturer 
that produces or assembles fewer than 
5,000 vehicles annually for sale in the 
United States are not subject to S7.2.1 
of this section (but vehicles that will 
be manufactured on or after September 
1, 2014 are subject to S7.2.2); 
(2) Vehicles that are manufactured 
by a limited line manufacturer are not 
subject to S7.2.1 of this section (but ve-
hicles that will be manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2014 are subject to 
S7.2.2). 


## Page 7

1038 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
(3) Convertibles manufactured before 
September 1, 2015, are not subject to 
S7.2.1 or S7.2.2 of this section. These 
vehicles may be voluntarily certified 
to meet the MDB test requirements 
prior to September 1, 2015. Vehicles 
manufactured on or after September 1, 
2015 are subject to S7 and S7.2.2. 
(b) Vehicles that are altered (within 
the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) before 
September 1, 2016 after having been 
previously certified in accordance with 
part 567 of this chapter, and vehicles 
manufactured in two or more stages 
before September 1, 2016, are not sub-
ject to S7.2.1. Vehicles that are altered 
on or after September 1, 2016, and vehi-
cles that are manufactured in two or 
more stages on or after September 1, 
2016, must meet the requirements of 
S7.2.5 and S7.2.6, when tested with the 
test dummy specified in those sections. 
Place the Subpart U ES–2re 50th per-
centile male dummy in the front seat 
and the Subpart V SID-IIs 5th per-
centile female test dummy in the rear 
seat. The test dummies are placed and 
positioned in the front and rear out-
board seating positions on the struck 
side of the vehicle, as specified in S11 
and S12 of this standard (49 CFR 
571.214). 
S7.2.5
Dynamic performance require-
ments using the Part 572 Subpart U 
dummy (ES–2re 50th percentile male) 
dummy. Use the 49 CFR Part 572 Sub-
part U ES–2re dummy specified in S11 
with measurements in accordance with 
S11.5. The following criteria shall be 
met: 
(a) The HIC shall not exceed 1000 
when calculated in accordance with the 
following formula: 
HIC
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
=
−
−
∫
[(
)
]
(
)
.
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
Where the term a is the resultant head accel-
eration at the center of gravity of the 
dummy head expressed as a multiple of g 
(the acceleration of gravity), and t1 and 
t2 are any two points in time during the 
impact which are separated by not more 
than a 36 millisecond time interval and 
where t1 is less than t2. 
(b) Thorax. The deflection of any of 
the upper, middle, and lower ribs, shall 
not exceed 44 mm (1.73 inches). 
(c) Force measurements. 
(1) The sum of the front, middle and 
rear abdominal forces, shall not exceed 
2,500 N (562 lb). 
(2) The pubic symphysis force shall 
not exceed 6,000 N (1,350 pounds). 
S7.2.6
Dynamic performance require-
ments using the Part 572 Subpart V SID– 
IIs (5th percentile female) dummy. Use 
the 49 CFR Part 572 Subpart V SID–IIs 
5th percentile female dummy specified 
in S11 with measurements in accord-
ance with S11.5. The following criteria 
shall be met: 
(a) The HIC shall not exceed 1000 
when calculated in accordance with the 
following formula: 
HIC
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
=
−
−
∫
[(
)
]
(
)
.
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
Where the term a is the resultant head accel-
eration expressed as a multiple of g (the 
acceleration of gravity), and t1 and t2 are 
any two points in time during the impact 
which are separated by not more than a 
36 millisecond time interval. 
(b) The resultant lower spine accel-
eration shall not exceed 82 g. 
(c) The sum of the acetabular and 
iliac pelvic forces shall not exceed 5,525 
N. 
S7.3
Door opening. 
(a) Any side door that is struck by 
the moving deformable barrier shall 
not separate totally from the vehicle. 
(b) 
Any 
door 
(including 
a 
rear 
hatchback or tailgate) that is not 
struck by the moving deformable bar-
rier shall meet the following require-
ments: 
(1) The door shall not disengage from 
the latched position; 
(2) The latch shall not separate from 
the striker, and the hinge components 
shall not separate from each other or 
from their attachment to the vehicle. 
(3) Neither the latch nor the hinge 
systems of the door shall pull out of 
their anchorages. 
S8
Test conditions for determining 
compliance with moving deformable bar-
rier requirements. General test condi-
tions for determining compliance with 
the moving deformable barrier test are 
specified below. Additional specifica-
tions may also be found in S12 of this 
standard (49 CFR 571.214). 
S8.1
Test weight. Each vehicle is 
loaded to its unloaded vehicle weight, 


## Page 8

1039 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
plus 136 kg (300 pounds) or its rated 
cargo and luggage capacity (whichever 
is less), secured in the luggage or load- 
carrying area, plus the weight of the 
necessary anthropomorphic test dum-
mies. Any added test equipment is lo-
cated away from impact areas in secure 
places in the vehicle. The vehicle’s fuel 
system is filled in accordance with the 
following procedure. With the test ve-
hicle on a level surface, pump the fuel 
from the vehicle’s fuel tank and then 
operate the engine until it stops. Then, 
add Stoddard solvent to the test vehi-
cle’s fuel tank in an amount that is 
equal to not less than 92 percent and 
not more than 94 percent of the fuel 
tank’s usable capacity stated by the 
vehicle’s manufacturer. In addition, 
add the amount of Stoddard solvent 
needed to fill the entire fuel system 
from the fuel tank through the en-
gine’s induction system. 
S8.2
Vehicle test attitude. Determine 
the distance between a level surface 
and a standard reference point on the 
test vehicle’s body, directly above each 
wheel opening, when the vehicle is in 
its fully loaded condition at the test 
site, with all tires inflated to the man-
ufacturer’s specifications listed on the 
vehicle’s tire placard, and with the ve-
hicle filled to 100 percent of all fluid 
capacities. The ‘‘fully loaded condi-
tion’’ is the test vehicle loaded in ac-
cordance with S8.1 of this standard (49 
CFR 571.214). The load placed in the 
cargo area is centered over the longitu-
dinal centerline of the vehicle. The pre-
test vehicle attitude is equal to the 
fully loaded attitude ± 10 mm. 
S8.3
Adjustable seats. 
S8.3.1
50th Percentile Male ES–2re 
Dummy (49 CFR Part 572 Subpart U) In 
Front Seats 
S8.3.1.1
Lumbar support adjustment. 
Position adjustable lumbar supports so 
that the lumbar support is in its low-
est, retracted or deflated adjustment 
position. 
S8.3.1.2
Other seat adjustments. Posi-
tion any adjustable parts of the seat 
that provide additional support so that 
they are in the lowest or non-deployed 
adjustment position. Position any ad-
justable head restraint in the highest 
and most forward position. Place ad-
justable seat backs in the manufactur-
er’s nominal design riding position in 
the manner specified by the manufac-
turer. If the position is not specified, 
set the seat back at the first detent 
rearward of 25° from the vertical. 
S8.3.1.3
Seat position adjustment. If 
the driver and any front outboard pas-
senger seats do not adjust independ-
ently of each other, the struck side 
seat shall control the final position of 
the non-struck side seat. If the driver 
and any front outboard passenger seats 
adjust independently of each other, ad-
just both the struck and non-struck 
side seats in the manner specified in 
S8.3.1. 
S8.3.1.3.1
Using only the controls 
that primarily move the seat and seat 
cushion independent of the seat back in 
the fore and aft directions, move the 
seat cushion reference point (SCRP) to 
the rearmost position. Using any part 
of any control, other than those just 
used, determine the full range of angles 
of the seat cushion reference line and 
set the seat cushion reference line to 
the middle of the range. Using any part 
of any control other than those that 
primarily move the seat or seat cush-
ion fore and aft, while maintaining the 
seat cushion reference line angle, place 
the SCRP to its lowest position. 
S8.3.1.3.2
Using 
only 
the 
control 
that primarily moves the seat fore and 
aft, move the seat cushion reference 
point to the mid travel position. If an 
adjustment position does not exist 
midway between the forwardmost and 
rearmost positions, the closest adjust-
ment position to the rear of the mid-
point is used. 
S8.3.1.3.3
If the seat or seat cushion 
height is adjustable, other than by the 
controls that primarily move the seat 
or seat cushion fore and aft, set the 
height of the seat cushion reference 
point to the minimum height, with the 
seat cushion reference line angle set as 
closely as possible to the angle deter-
mined in S8.3.1.3.1. Mark location of 
the seat for future reference. 
S8.3.2 
50th 
Percentile 
Male 
SID 
Dummy (49 CFR Part 572 Subpart F) in 
Front and Rear Seats 
S8.3.2.1
Adjustable seats. Adjustable 
seats are placed in the adjustment po-
sition midway between the forward 
most and rearmost positions, and if 
separately adjustable in a vertical di-
rection, are at the lowest position. If 


## Page 9

1040 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
an adjustment position does not exist 
midway between the forward most and 
rearmost positions, the closest adjust-
ment position to the rear of the mid- 
point is used. 
S8.3.2.2
Adjustable seat back place-
ment. Place adjustable seat backs in 
the 
manufacturer’s 
nominal 
design 
riding position in the manner specified 
by the manufacturer. If the position is 
not specified, set the seat back at the 
first detent rearward of 25° from the 
vertical. Place each adjustable head re-
straint in its highest adjustment posi-
tion. Position adjustable lumbar sup-
ports so that they are set in their re-
leased, i.e., full back position. 
S8.3.3
5th Percentile Female Dummy in 
Second Row Seat. 
S8.3.3.1
Lumbar support adjustment. 
Position adjustable lumbar supports so 
that the lumbar support is in its low-
est, retracted or deflated adjustment 
position. 
S8.3.3.2
Other seat adjustments. Posi-
tion any adjustable parts of the seat 
that provide additional support so that 
they are in the lowest or non-deployed 
adjustment position. Position any ad-
justable head restraint in the lowest 
and most forward in-use position. If it 
is possible to achieve a position lower 
than the effective detent range, the 
head restraint should be set to its low-
est possible position. A non-use posi-
tion as specified by S4.4 of FMVSS No. 
202a, is excluded from being considered 
as the lowest possible position. 
S8.3.3.3
Seat 
position 
adjustment. 
Using only the controls that primarily 
move the seat and seat cushion inde-
pendent of the seat back in the fore 
and aft directions, move the seat cush-
ion reference point (SCRP) to the rear-
most position. Using any part of any 
control, other than those just used, de-
termine the full range of angles of the 
seat cushion reference line and set the 
seat cushion reference line to the mid-
dle of the range. Using any part of any 
control other than those that pri-
marily move the seat or seat cushion 
fore and aft, while maintaining the 
seat cushion reference line angle, place 
the SCRP to its lowest position. Mark 
location of the seat for future ref-
erence. If the non-struck side seat ad-
justs independently of the struck side 
seat, adjust the seat in the manner 
specified in this section. 
S8.4
Adjustable steering controls. Ad-
justable steering controls are adjusted 
so that the steering control hub is at 
the geometric center of the locus it de-
scribes when it is moved through its 
full range of driving positions. If there 
is no setting detent in the mid-posi-
tion, lower the steering control to the 
detent just below the mid-position. If 
the steering column is telescoping, 
place the steering column in the mid- 
position. If there is no mid-position, 
move the steering control rearward one 
position from the mid-position. 
S8.5
Windows and sunroofs. Movable 
vehicle windows and vents are placed 
in the fully closed position on the 
struck side of the vehicle. Any sunroof 
shall be placed in the fully closed posi-
tion. 
S8.6
Convertible 
tops. 
Convertibles 
and open-body type vehicles have the 
top, if any, in place in the closed pas-
senger compartment configuration. 
S8.7
Doors. 
Doors, 
including 
any 
rear hatchback or tailgate, are fully 
closed and latched but not locked. 
S8.8
Transmission and brake engage-
ment. For a vehicle equipped with a 
manual transmission, the transmission 
is placed in second gear. For a vehicle 
equipped with an automatic trans-
mission, the transmission is placed in 
neutral. For all vehicles, the parking 
brake is engaged. 
S8.9
Moving deformable barrier. The 
moving deformable barrier conforms to 
the dimensions shown in Figure 2 and 
specified in 49 CFR Part 587. 
S8.10
Impact configuration. The test 
vehicle (vehicle A in Figure 3) is sta-
tionary. The line of forward motion of 
the moving deformable barrier (vehicle 
B in Figure 3) forms an angle of 63 de-
grees with the centerline of the test ve-
hicle. The longitudinal centerline of 
the moving deformable barrier is per-
pendicular to the longitudinal center-
line of the test vehicle when the bar-
rier strikes the test vehicle. In a test 
in which the test vehicle is to be 
struck on its left (right) side: All 
wheels of the moving deformable bar-
rier are positioned at an angle of 27 ±1 
degrees to the right (left) of the center-
line of the moving deformable barrier; 
and the left (right) forward edge of the 


## Page 10

1041 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
moving deformable barrier is aligned 
so that a longitudinal plane tangent to 
that side passes through the impact 
reference line within a tolerance of ±51 
mm (2 inches) when the barrier strikes 
the test vehicle. 
S8.11
Impact reference line. Place a 
vertical reference line at the location 
described below on the side of the vehi-
cle that will be struck by the moving 
deformable barrier. 
S8.11.1
Passenger cars. 
(a) For vehicles with a wheelbase of 
2,896 mm (114 inches) or less, 940 mm (37 
inches) forward of the center of the ve-
hicle’s wheelbase. 
(b) For vehicles with a wheelbase 
greater than 2,896 mm (114 inches), 508 
mm (20 inches) rearward of the center-
line of the vehicle’s front axle. 
S8.11.2
Multipurpose passenger vehi-
cles, trucks and buses. 
(a) For vehicles with a wheelbase of 
2,489 mm (98 inches) or less, 305 mm (12 
inches) rearward of the centerline of 
the vehicle’s front axle, except as oth-
erwise specified in paragraph (d) of this 
section. 
(b) For vehicles with a wheelbase of 
greater than 2,489 mm (98 inches) but 
not greater than 2,896 mm (114 inches), 
940 mm (37 inches) forward of the cen-
ter of the vehicle’s wheelbase, except 
as otherwise specified in paragraph (d) 
of this section. 
(c) For vehicles with a wheelbase 
greater than 2,896 mm (114 inches), 508 
mm (20 inches) rearward of the center-
line of the vehicle’s front axle, except 
as otherwise specified in paragraph (d) 
of this section. 
(d) At the manufacturer’s option, for 
different wheelbase versions of the 
same model vehicle, the impact ref-
erence line may be located by the fol-
lowing: 
(1) Select the shortest wheelbase ve-
hicle 
of 
the 
different 
wheelbase 
versions of the same model and locate 
on it the impact reference line at the 
location described in (a), (b) or (c) of 
this section, as appropriate; 
(2) Measure the distance between the 
seating reference point (SgRP) and the 
impact reference line; 
(3) Maintain the same distance be-
tween the SgRP and the impact ref-
erence line for the version being tested 
as that between the SgRP and the im-
pact reference line for the shortest 
wheelbase version of the model. 
(e) For the compliance test, the im-
pact reference line will be located 
using the procedure used by the manu-
facturer as the basis for its certifi-
cation of compliance with the require-
ments of this standard. If the manufac-
turer did not use any of the procedures 
in this section, or does not specify a 
procedure when asked by the agency, 
the agency may locate the impact ref-
erence line using either procedure. 
S8.12
Anthropomorphic test dummies. 
The anthropomorphic test dummies 
used to evaluate a vehicle’s perform-
ance in the moving deformable barrier 
test conform to the requirements of 
S11 and are positioned as described in 
S12 of this standard (49 CFR 571.214). 


## Page 11

1042 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 


## Page 12

1043 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
S9.
Vehicle-To-Pole Requirements. 
S9.1
Except as provided in S5, when 
tested under the conditions of S10: 
S9.1.1
Except as provided in S9.1.3 of 
this section, for vehicles manufactured 
on or after September 1, 2010 to August 
31, 2014, a percentage of each manufac-
turer’s 
production, 
as 
specified 
in 
S13.1.1, S13.1.2, S13.1.3, and S13.1.4 shall 
meet the requirements of S9.2.1, S9.2.2, 
and S9.2.3 when tested under the condi-
tions of S10 into a fixed, rigid pole of 
254 mm (10 inches) in diameter, at any 
velocity between 26 km/h to 32 km/h (16 
to 20 mph) inclusive. Vehicles manufac-
tured before September 1, 2014 that are 


## Page 13

1044 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
not subject to the phase-in may be cer-
tified as meeting the requirements 
specified in this section. 
S9.1.2
Except as provided in S9.1.3 of 
this section, each vehicle manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2014, 
must meet the requirements of S9.2.1, 
S9.2.2 and S9.2.3, when tested under the 
conditions specified in S10 into a fixed, 
rigid pole of 254 mm (10 inches) in di-
ameter, at any speed up to and includ-
ing 32 km/h (20 mph). All vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2014 
must meet S9.1.2 without the use of ad-
vance credits. 
S9.1.3
Exceptions from the phase-in; 
special allowances. 
(a)(1) Vehicles that are manufactured 
by an original vehicle manufacturer 
that produces or assembles fewer than 
5,000 vehicles annually for sale in the 
United States are not subject to S9.1.1 
of this section (but vehicles manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2014 by 
these manufacturers are subject to 
S9.1.2); 
(2) Vehicles that are manufactured 
by a limited line manufacturer are not 
subject to S9.1.1 of this section (but ve-
hicles manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2014 by these manufacturers 
are subject to S9.1.2). 
(b) Vehicles that are altered (within 
the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) before 
September 1, 2016 after having been 
previously certified in accordance with 
part 567 of this chapter, and vehicles 
manufactured in two or more stages 
before September 1, 2016, are not sub-
ject to S9.1.1. Vehicles that are altered 
on or after September 1, 2016, and vehi-
cles that are manufactured in two or 
more stages on or after September 1, 
2016, must meet the requirements of 
S9.1.2, when tested under the condi-
tions specified in S10 into a fixed, rigid 
pole of 254 mm (10 inches) in diameter, 
at any speed up to and including 32 km/ 
h (20 mph). 
(c) Vehicles with a gross vehicle 
weight rating greater than 3,855 kg 
(8,500 lb) manufactured before Sep-
tember 1, 2015 are not subject to S9.1.1 
or S9.1.2 of this section. These vehicles 
may be voluntarily certified to meet 
the pole test requirements prior to 
September 1, 2015. Vehicles with a 
gross vehicle weight rating greater 
than 3,855 kg (8,500 lb) manufactured on 
or after September 1, 2015 must meet 
the requirements of S9.2.1, S9.2.2 and 
S9.2.3, when tested under the condi-
tions specified in S10 into a fixed, rigid 
pole of 254 mm (10 inches) in diameter, 
at any speed up to and including 32 km/ 
h (20 mph). 
(d)(1) Convertibles manufactured be-
fore September 1, 2015 are not subject 
to S9.1.1 or S9.1.2 of this section. These 
vehicles may be voluntarily certified 
to meet the pole test requirements 
prior to September 1, 2015. 
(2) Convertibles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2015 must meet the 
requirements of S9.2.1, S9.2.2 and S9.2.3, 
when tested under the conditions speci-
fied in S10 into a fixed, rigid pole of 254 
mm (10 inches) in diameter, at any 
speed up to and including 32 km/h (20 
mph). 
S9.2
Requirements. Each vehicle shall 
meet these vehicle-to-pole test require-
ments when tested under the condi-
tions of S10 of this standard. At 
NHTSA’s option, either the 50th per-
centile adult male test dummy (ES–2re 
dummy, 49 CFR Part 572 Subpart U) or 
the 5th percentile adult female test 
dummy (SID–IIs, 49 CFR Part 572 Sub-
part V) shall be used in the test. At 
NHTSA’s option, either front outboard 
seating position shall be tested. The 
vehicle shall meet the specific require-
ments at all front outboard seating po-
sitions. 
S9.2.1
Dynamic performance require-
ments using the Part 572 Subpart U (ES– 
2re 50th percentile male) dummy. When 
using the ES–2re Part 572 Subpart U 
dummy, use the specifications of S11 of 
this standard (49 CFR 571.214). When 
using the dummy, the following per-
formance requirements must be met 
using 
measurements 
in 
accordance 
with S11.5. 
(a) The HIC shall not exceed 1000 
when calculated in accordance with the 
following formula: 
HIC
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
=
−
−
∫
[(
)
]
(
)
.
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
Where the term a is the resultant head accel-
eration at the center of gravity of the 
dummy head expressed as a multiple of g 
(the acceleration of gravity), and t1 and 
t2 are any two points in time during the 
impact which are separated by not more 


## Page 14

1045 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
than a 36 millisecond time interval and 
where t1 is less than t2. 
(b) Thorax. The deflection of any of 
the upper, middle, and lower ribs, shall 
not exceed 44 mm (1.73 inches). 
(c) Force measurements. 
(1) The sum of the front, middle and 
rear abdominal forces, shall not exceed 
2,500 N (562 pounds). 
(2) The pubic symphysis force shall 
not exceed 6,000 N (1,350 pounds). 
S9.2.2
Dynamic performance require-
ments using the Part 572 Subpart V SID– 
IIs (5th percentile female) dummy. When 
using the SID–IIs Part 572 Subpart V 
dummy, use the specifications of S11 of 
this standard (49 CFR 571.214). When 
using the dummy, the following per-
formance requirements must be met. 
(a) The HIC shall not exceed 1000 
when calculated in accordance with the 
following formula: 
HIC
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
=
−
−
∫
[(
)
]
(
)
.
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
Where the term a is the resultant head accel-
eration at the center of gravity of the 
dummy head expressed as a multiple of g 
(the acceleration of gravity), and t1 and 
t2 are any two points in time during the 
impact which are separated by not more 
than a 36 millisecond time interval and 
where t1 is less than t2. 
(b) Resultant lower spine accelera-
tion must not exceed 82 g. 
(c) The sum of the acetabular and 
iliac pelvic forces must not exceed 5,525 
N. 
S9.2.3
Door opening. 
(a) Any side door that is struck by 
the pole shall not separate totally from 
the vehicle. 
(b) 
Any 
door 
(including 
a 
rear 
hatchback or tailgate) that is not 
struck by the pole shall meet the fol-
lowing requirements: 
(1) The door shall not disengage from 
the latched position; and 
(2) The latch shall not separate from 
the striker, and the hinge components 
shall not separate from each other or 
from their attachment to the vehicle. 
(3) Neither the latch nor the hinge 
systems of the door shall pull out of 
their anchorages. 
S10. General test conditions for deter-
mining compliance with vehicle-to-pole re-
quirements. General test conditions for 
determining compliance with the vehi-
cle-to-pole test are specified below and 
in S12 of this standard (49 CFR 571.214). 
S10.1
Test weight. Each vehicle is 
loaded as specified in S8.1 of this stand-
ard (49 CFR 571.214). 
S10.2
Vehicle test attitude. When the 
vehicle is in its ‘‘as delivered,’’ ‘‘fully 
loaded’’ and ‘‘as tested’’ condition, lo-
cate the vehicle on a flat, horizontal 
surface to determine the vehicle atti-
tude. Use the same level surface or ref-
erence plane and the same standard 
points on the test vehicle when deter-
mining the ‘‘as delivered,’’ ‘‘fully load-
ed’’ and ‘‘as tested’’ conditions. Meas-
ure the angles relative to a horizontal 
plane, front-to-rear and from left-to- 
right for the ‘‘as delivered,’’ ‘‘fully 
loaded,’’ and ‘‘as tested’’ conditions. 
The front-to-rear angle (pitch) is meas-
ured along a fixed reference on the left 
and right front occupant’s door sills. 
Mark where the angles are taken on 
the door sills. The left to right angle 
(roll) is measured along a fixed ref-
erence point at the front and rear of 
the vehicle at the vehicle longitudinal 
center plane. Mark where the angles 
are measured. The ‘‘as delivered’’ con-
dition is the vehicle as received at the 
test site, with 100 percent of all fluid 
capacities and all tires inflated to the 
manufacturer’s specifications listed on 
the vehicle’s tire placard. When the ve-
hicle is in its ‘‘fully loaded’’ condition, 
measure the angle between the left 
front occupant’s door sill and the hori-
zontal, at the same place the ‘‘as deliv-
ered’’ angle was measured. The ‘‘fully 
loaded condition’’ is the test vehicle 
loaded in accordance with S8.1 of this 
standard (49 CFR 571.214). The load 
placed in the cargo area is centered 
over the longitudinal centerline of the 
vehicle. The vehicle ‘‘as tested’’ pitch 
and roll angles are between the ‘‘as de-
livered’’ and ‘‘fully loaded’’ condition, 
inclusive. 
S10.3
Adjustable seats. 
S10.3.1
Driver and front outboard pas-
senger seat set-up for 50th percentile male 
dummy. The driver and front outboard 
passenger seats are set up as specified 
in S8.3.1 of this standard, 49 CFR 
571.214. 
S10.3.2. Driver and front outboard pas-
senger seat set-up for 49 CFR part 572 
Subpart V 5th percentile female dummy. 


## Page 15

1046 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
S10.3.2.1
Lumbar support adjustment. 
Position adjustable lumbar supports so 
that the lumbar support is in its low-
est, retracted or deflated adjustment 
position. 
S10.3.2.2
Other seat adjustments. Posi-
tion any adjustable parts of the seat 
that provide additional support so that 
they are in the lowest or non-deployed 
adjustment position. Position any ad-
justable head restraint in the lowest 
and most forward in-use position. If it 
is possible to achieve a position lower 
than the effective detent range, the 
head restraint should be set to its low-
est possible position. A non-use posi-
tion as specified by S4.4 of FMVSS No. 
202a, is excluded from being considered 
as the lowest possible position. 
S10.3.2.3
Seat position adjustment. If 
the driver and any front outboard pas-
senger seats do not adjust independ-
ently of each other, the struck side 
seat shall control the final position of 
the non-struck side seat. If the driver 
and any front outboard passenger seats 
adjust independently of each other, ad-
just both the struck and non-struck 
side seats in the manner specified in 
S10.3.2. 
S10.3.2.3.1
Using only the controls 
that primarily move the seat and seat 
cushion independent of the seat back in 
the fore and aft directions, move the 
seat cushion reference point (SCRP) to 
the rearmost position. Using any part 
of any control, other than those just 
used, determine the full range of angles 
of the seat cushion reference line and 
set the seat cushion reference line to 
the middle of the range. Using any part 
of any control other than those that 
primarily move the seat or seat cush-
ion fore and aft, while maintaining the 
seat cushion reference line angle, place 
the SCRP to its lowest position. 
S10.3.2.3.2
Using only the control 
that primarily moves the seat fore and 
aft, move the seat reference point to 
the most forward position. 
S10.3.2.3.3
If the seat or seat cushion 
height is adjustable, other than by the 
controls that primarily move the seat 
or seat cushion fore and aft, set the 
seat reference point to the midpoint 
height, with the seat cushion reference 
line angle set as close as possible to the 
angle determined in S10.3.2.3.1. Mark 
location of the seat for future ref-
erence. 
S10.4
Positioning dummies for the ve-
hicle-to-pole test. 
(a) 50th percentile male test dummy (49 
CFR Part 572 Subpart U ES–2re dummy). 
The 50th percentile male test dummy is 
positioned in the front outboard seat-
ing position on the struck side of the 
vehicle in accordance with the provi-
sions of S12.2 of this standard, 49 CFR 
571.214. 
(b) 5th percentile female test dummy (49 
CFR Part 572 Subpart V SID–IIs dummy). 
The 5th percentile female test dummy 
is positioned in the front outboard 
seating positions on the struck side of 
the vehicle in accordance with the pro-
visions of S12.3 of this standard, 49 CFR 
571.214. 
S10.5
Adjustable steering controls. Ad-
justable steering controls are adjusted 
so that the steering control hub is at 
the geometric center of the locus it de-
scribes when it is moved through its 
full range of driving positions. If there 
is no setting detent in the mid-posi-
tion, lower the steering control to the 
detent just below the mid-position. If 
the steering column is telescoping, 
place the steering column in the mid- 
position. If there is no mid-position, 
move the steering control rearward one 
position from the mid-position. 
S10.6
Windows and sunroofs. Movable 
vehicle windows and vents are placed 
in the fully closed position on the 
struck side of the vehicle. Any sunroof 
is placed in the fully closed position. 
S10.7
Convertible tops. Convertibles 
and open-body type vehicles have the 
top, if any, in place in the closed pas-
senger compartment configuration. 
S10.8
Doors. Doors, including any 
rear hatchback or tailgate, are fully 
closed and latched but not locked. 
S10.9
Transmission and brake engage-
ment. For a vehicle equipped with a 
manual transmission, the transmission 
is placed in second gear. For a vehicle 
equipped with an automatic trans-
mission, the transmission is placed in 
neutral. For all vehicles, the parking 
brake is engaged. 
S10.10
Rigid pole. The rigid pole is a 
vertical metal structure beginning no 
more than 102 millimeters (4 inches) 
above the lowest point of the tires on 
the striking side of the test vehicle 


## Page 16

1047 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
when the vehicle is loaded as specified 
in S8.1 and extending above the highest 
point of the roof of the test vehicle. 
The pole is 254 mm (10 inches) ±6 mm 
(0.25 in) in diameter and set off from 
any mounting surface, such as a bar-
rier or other structure, so that the test 
vehicle will not contact such a mount 
or support at any time within 100 milli-
seconds of the initiation of vehicle to 
pole contact. 
S10.11
Impact reference line. The im-
pact reference line is located on the 
striking side of the vehicle at the 
intersection of the vehicle exterior and 
a vertical plane passing through the 
center of gravity of the head of the 
dummy seated in accordance with S12 
in the front outboard designated seat-
ing position. The vertical plane forms 
an angle of 285 (or 75) degrees with the 
vehicle’s longitudinal centerline for 
the right (or left) side impact test. The 
angle is measured counterclockwise 
from the vehicle’s positive X-axis as 
defined in S10.13. 
S10.12
Impact configuration. 
S10.12.1
The rigid pole is stationary. 
S10.12.2
The test vehicle is propelled 
sideways so that its line of forward mo-
tion forms an angle of 285 (or 75) de-
grees (±3 degrees) for the right (or left) 
side impact with the vehicle’s longitu-
dinal centerline. The angle is measured 
counterclockwise from the vehicle’s 
positive X-axis as defined in S10.13. The 
impact reference line is aligned with 
the center line of the rigid pole surface, 
as viewed in the direction of vehicle 
motion, so that, when the vehicle-to- 
pole contact occurs, the center line 
contacts the vehicle area bounded by 
two vertical planes parallel to and 38 
mm (1.5 inches) forward and aft of the 
impact reference line. 
S10.13
Vehicle 
reference 
coordinate 
system. The vehicle reference coordi-
nate system is an orthogonal coordi-
nate system consisting of three axes, a 
longitudinal axis (X), a transverse axis 
(Y), and a vertical axis (Z). X and Y are 
in the same horizontal plane and Z 
passes through the intersection of X 
and Y. The origin of the system is at 
the center of gravity of the vehicle. 
The X-axis is parallel to the longitu-
dinal centerline of the vehicle and is 
positive to the vehicle front end and 
negative to the rear end. The Y-axis is 
positive to the left side of the vehicle 
and negative to the right side. The Z- 
axis is positive above the X-Y plane 
and negative below it. 
S11
Anthropomorphic 
test 
dummies. 
The anthropomorphic test dummies 
used to evaluate a vehicle’s perform-
ance in the moving deformable barrier 
and vehicle-to-pole tests are specified 
in 49 CFR part 572. In a test in which 
the test vehicle is to be struck on its 
left side, each dummy is to be config-
ured and instrumented to be struck on 
its left side, in accordance with part 
572. In a test in which the test vehicle 
is to be struck on its right side, each 
dummy is to be configured and instru-
mented to be struck on its right side, 
in accordance with part 572. 
S11.1
Clothing. 
(a) 50th percentile male. Each test 
dummy representing a 50th percentile 
male is clothed in formfitting cotton 
stretch garments with short sleeves 
and midcalf length pants. Each foot of 
the test dummy is equipped with a size 
11EEE shoe, which meets the configu-
ration size, sole, and heel thickness 
specifications of MIL–S–13192 (incor-
porated by reference, see § 571.5) and 
weighs 0.68 ±0.09 kilograms (1.25 ±0.2 lb). 
(b) 5th percentile female. The 49 CFR 
Part 572 Subpart V test dummy rep-
resenting a 5th percentile female is 
clothed in formfitting cotton stretch 
garments with short sleeves and about 
the knee length pants. Each foot has 
on a size 7.5W shoe that meets the con-
figuration and size specifications of 
MIL–S–21711E 
(incorporated 
by 
ref-
erence, see § 571.5) or its equivalent. 
S11.2
Limb joints. 
(a) For the 50th percentile male 
dummy, set the limb joints at between 
1 and 2 g. Adjust the leg joints with the 
torso in the supine position. Adjust the 
knee and ankle joints so that they just 
support the lower leg and the foot 
when extended horizontally (1 to 2 g 
adjustment). 
(b) For the 49 CFR Part 572 Subpart V 
5th percentile female dummy, set the 
limb joints at slightly above 1 g, barely 
restraining the weight of the limb 
when extended horizontally. The force 
needed to move a limb segment does 
not exceed 2 g throughout the range of 
limb motion. Adjust the leg joints with 
the torso in the supine position. 


## Page 17

1048 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
S11.3
The stabilized temperature of 
the test dummy at the time of the test 
is at any temperature between 20.6 de-
grees C and 22.2 degrees C. 
S11.4
Acceleration 
data. 
Accelerometers are installed on the 
head, rib, spine and pelvis components 
of various dummies as required to meet 
the injury criteria of the standard. Ac-
celerations measured from different 
dummy components may use different 
filters and processing methods. 
S11.5
Processing Data. 
(a) Subpart F (SID) test dummy. 
(1) Process the acceleration data 
from the accelerometers mounted on 
the ribs, spine and pelvis of the Sub-
part F dummy with the FIR100 soft-
ware specified in 49 CFR 572.44(d). Proc-
ess the data in the following manner: 
(i) Filter the data with a 300 Hz, SAE 
Class 180 filter; 
(ii) Subsample the data to a 1600 Hz 
sampling rate; 
(iii) Remove the bias from the sub-
sampled data; and 
(iv) Filter the data with the FIR100 
software specified in 49 CFR 572.44(d), 
which has the following characteris-
tics— 
(A) Passband frequency 100 Hz. 
(B) Stopband frequency 189 Hz. 
(C) Stopband gain ¥50 db. 
(D) Passband ripple 0.0225 db. 
(2) [Reserved] 
(b) Subpart U (ES–2re 50th percentile 
male) test dummy. 
(1) The rib deflection data are fil-
tered at channel frequency class 180 Hz. 
Abdominal and pubic force data are fil-
tered at channel frequency class of 600 
Hz. 
(2) The acceleration data from the 
accelerometers 
installed 
inside 
the 
skull cavity of the ES–2re test dummy 
are filtered at channel frequency class 
of 1000 Hz. 
(c) Subpart V (SID–IIs 5th percentile fe-
male) test dummy. 
(1) The acceleration data from the 
accelerometers 
installed 
inside 
the 
skull cavity of the SID–IIs test dummy 
are filtered at channel frequency class 
of 1000 Hz. 
(2) The acceleration data from the 
accelerometers installed on the lower 
spine of the SID–IIs test dummy are fil-
tered at channel frequency class of 180 
Hz. 
(3) The iliac and acetabular forces 
from load cells installed in the pelvis 
of the SID–IIs are filtered at channel 
frequency class of 600 Hz. 
S12
Positioning 
procedures 
for 
the 
anthropomorphic test dummies. 
S12.1
50th 
percentile 
male 
test 
dummy—49 CFR part 572 subpart F (SID). 
Position a correctly configured test 
dummy, conforming to the applicable 
requirements of part 572 Subpart F of 
this chapter, in the front outboard 
seating position on the side of the test 
vehicle to be struck by the moving de-
formable barrier and, if the vehicle has 
a second seat, position another con-
forming test dummy in the second seat 
outboard position on the same side of 
the vehicle, as specified in S12.1.3. Each 
test dummy is restrained using all 
available belt systems in all seating 
positions where such belt restraints are 
provided. Place any adjustable anchor-
ages at the manufacturer’s nominal de-
sign position for a 50th percentile adult 
male occupant. In addition, any folding 
armrest is retracted. Additional posi-
tioning procedures are specified below. 
S12.1.1
Positioning a Part 572 Subpart 
F (SID) dummy in the driver’s seating po-
sition. 
(a) Torso. Hold the dummy’s head in 
place and push laterally on the non-im-
pacted side of the upper torso in a sin-
gle stroke with a force of 66.7–89.0 N 
(15–20 lb) towards the impacted side. 
(1) For a bench seat. The upper torso 
of the test dummy rests against the 
seat back. The midsagittal plane of the 
test dummy is vertical and parallel to 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline, 
and passes through the center of the 
steering control. 
(2) For a bucket seat. The upper torso 
of the test dummy rests against the 
seat back. The midsagittal plane of the 
test dummy is vertical and parallel to 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline, 
and coincides with the longitudinal 
centerline of the bucket seat. 
(b) Pelvis. 
(1) H-point. The H-points of each test 
dummy coincide within 12.7 mm (1⁄2 
inch) in the vertical dimension and 12.7 
mm (1⁄2 inch) in the horizontal dimen-
sion of a point that is located 6.4 mm 
(1⁄4 inch) below the position of the H- 


## Page 18

1049 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
point determined by using the equip-
ment for the 50th percentile and proce-
dures specified in SAE Standard J826– 
1980 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5), except that Table 1 of SAE 
Standard J826–1980 is not applicable. 
The length of the lower leg and thigh 
segments of the H-point machine are 
adjusted to 414 and 401 mm (16.3 and 
15.8 inches), respectively. 
(2) Pelvic angle. As determined using 
the pelvic angle gauge (GM drawing 
78051–532 incorporated by reference in 
part 572, Subpart E of this chapter) 
which is inserted into the H–point 
gauging hole of the dummy, the angle 
of the plane of the surface on the lum-
bar-pelvic adaptor on which the lumbar 
spine attaches is 23 to 25 degrees from 
the horizontal, sloping upward toward 
the front of the vehicle. 
(3) Legs. The upper legs of each test 
dummy rest against the seat cushion 
to the extent permitted by placement 
of the feet. The left knee of the dummy 
is positioned such that the distance 
from the outer surface of the knee 
pivot bolt to the dummy’s midsagittal 
plane is 152.4 mm (6.0 inches). To the 
extent practicable, the left leg of the 
test dummy is in a vertical longitu-
dinal plane. 
(4) Feet. The right foot of the test 
dummy rests on the undepressed accel-
erator with the heel resting as far for-
ward as possible on the floorpan. The 
left foot is set perpendicular to the 
lower leg with the heel resting on the 
floorpan in the same lateral line as the 
right heel. 
S12.1.2
Positioning a Part 572 Subpart 
F (SID) dummy in any front outboard 
passenger seating position. 
(a) Torso. Hold the dummy’s head in 
place and push laterally on the non-im-
pacted side of the upper torso in a sin-
gle stroke with a force of 66.7–89.0 N 
(15–20 lb) towards the impacted side. 
(1) For a bench seat. The upper torso 
of the test dummy rests against the 
seat back. The midsagittal plane of the 
test dummy is vertical and parallel to 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline. 
For vehicles with manually operated 
driving controls the midsagittal plane 
of the test dummy is the same distance 
from the vehicle’s longitudinal center-
line as would be the midsagittal plane 
of a test dummy positioned in the driv-
er’s seating position under S12.1.1(a)(1). 
For vehicles without manually oper-
ated driving controls the midsagittal 
plane of the test dummy shall be 
vertical and parallel to the vehicle’s 
longitudinal 
centerline, 
and 
passes 
through any front outboard passenger 
seat’s SgRP. 
(2) For a bucket seat. The upper torso 
of the test dummy rests against the 
seat back. The midsagittal plane of the 
test dummy is vertical and parallel to 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline, 
and coincides with the longitudinal 
centerline of the bucket seat. 
(b) Pelvis. 
(1) H-point. The H-points of each test 
dummy coincide within 12.7 mm (1⁄2 
inch) in the vertical dimension and 12.7 
mm (1⁄2 inch) in the horizontal dimen-
sion of a point that is located 6.4 mm 
(1⁄4 inch) below the position of the H- 
point determined by using the equip-
ment for the 50th percentile and proce-
dures specified in SAE Standard J826– 
1980 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5), except that Table 1 of SAE 
J826–1980 is not applicable. The length 
of the lower leg and thigh segments of 
the H-point machine are adjusted to 414 
and 401 mm (16.3 and 15.8 inches), re-
spectively. 
(2) Pelvic angle. As determined using 
the pelvic angle gauge (GM drawing 
78051–532 incorporated by reference in 
part 572, Subpart E of this chapter) 
which is inserted into the H–point 
gauging hole of the dummy, the angle 
of the plane of the surface on the lum-
bar-pelvic adaptor on which the lumbar 
spine attaches is 23 to 25 degrees from 
the horizontal, sloping upward toward 
the front of the vehicle. 
(c) Legs. The upper legs of each test 
dummy rest against the seat cushion 
to the extent permitted by placement 
of the feet. The initial distance be-
tween the outboard knee clevis flange 
surfaces is 292 mm (11.5 inches). To the 
extent practicable, both legs of the test 
dummies in outboard passenger posi-
tions 
are 
in 
vertical 
longitudinal 
planes. Final adjustment to accommo-
date placement of feet in accordance 
with S12.1.2(d) for various passenger 
compartment configurations is per-
mitted. 
(d) Feet. The feet of the test dummy 
are placed on the vehicle’s toeboard 


## Page 19

1050 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
with the heels resting on the floorpan 
as close as possible to the intersection 
of the toeboard and floorpan. If the feet 
cannot be placed flat on the toeboard, 
they are set perpendicular to the lower 
legs and placed as far forward as pos-
sible so that the heels rest on the 
floorpan. 
S12.1.3
Positioning a Part 572 Subpart 
F (SID) dummy in the rear outboard seat-
ing positions. 
(a) Torso. Hold the dummy’s head in 
place and push laterally on the non-im-
pacted side of the upper torso in a sin-
gle stroke with a force of 66.7–89.0 N 
(15–20 lb) towards the impacted side. 
(1) For a bench seat. The upper torso 
of the test dummy rests against the 
seat back. The midsagittal plane of the 
test dummy is vertical and parallel to 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline, 
and, if possible, the same distance from 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline as 
the midsagittal plane of a test dummy 
positioned in the driver’s seating posi-
tion under S12.1.1(a)(1) or left front 
passenger 
seating 
positioned 
under 
S12.1.2(a)(1) in vehicles without manu-
ally operated driving controls. If it is 
not 
possible 
to 
position 
the 
test 
dummy so that its midsagittal plane is 
parallel to the vehicle longitudinal 
centerline and is at this distance from 
the vehicle’s longitudinal centerline, 
the test dummy is positioned so that 
some portion of the test dummy just 
touches, at or above the seat level, the 
side surface of the vehicle, such as the 
upper quarter panel, an armrest, or any 
interior trim (i.e., either the broad 
trim panel surface or a smaller, local-
ized trim feature). 
(2) For a bucket or contoured seat. 
The upper torso of the test dummy 
rests 
against 
the 
seat 
back. 
The 
midsagittal plane of the test dummy is 
vertical and parallel to the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline, and coincides 
with the longitudinal centerline of the 
bucket or contoured seat. 
(b) Pelvis. 
(1) H-point. The H-points of each test 
dummy coincide within 12.7 mm (1⁄2 
inch) in the vertical dimension and 12.7 
mm (1⁄2 inch) in the horizontal dimen-
sion of a point that is located 6.4 mm 
(1⁄4 inch) below the position of the H- 
point determined by using the equip-
ment for the 50th percentile and proce-
dures specified in SAE Standard J826– 
1980 (incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5), except that Table 1 of SAE 
J826–1980 is not applicable. The length 
of the lower leg and thigh segments of 
the H-point machine are adjusted to 414 
and 401 mm (16.3 and 15.8 inches), re-
spectively. 
(2) Pelvic angle. As determined using 
the pelvic angle gauge (GM drawing 
78051–532 incorporated by reference in 
part 572, Subpart E of this chapter) 
which is inserted into the H–point 
gauging hole of the dummy, the angle 
of the plane of the surface on the lum-
bar-pelvic adaptor on which the lumbar 
spine attaches is 23 to 25 degrees from 
the horizontal, sloping upward toward 
the front of the vehicle. 
(c) Legs. Rest the upper legs of each 
test dummy against the seat cushion 
to the extent permitted by placement 
of the feet. The initial distance be-
tween the outboard knee clevis flange 
surfaces is 292 mm (11.5 inches). To the 
extent practicable, both legs of the test 
dummies in outboard passenger posi-
tions 
are 
in 
vertical 
longitudinal 
planes. Final adjustment to accommo-
date placement of feet in accordance 
with S12.1.3(d) for various passenger 
compartment configurations is per-
mitted. 
(d) Feet. Place the feet of the test 
dummy flat on the floorpan and be-
neath the front seat as far as possible 
without front seat interference. If nec-
essary, the distance between the knees 
may be changed in order to place the 
feet beneath the seat. 
S12.2
50th 
percentile 
male 
test 
dummy—49 CFR Part 572 Subpart U (ES– 
2re). 
S12.2.1
Positioning an ES–2re dummy 
in all seating positions. Position a cor-
rectly configured ES–2re test dummy, 
conforming to the applicable require-
ments of part 572 of this chapter, in the 
front outboard seating position on the 
side of the test vehicle to be struck by 
the moving deformable barrier or pole. 
Restrain the test dummy using all 
available belt systems in the seating 
positions where the belt restraints are 
provided. Place any adjustable anchor-
ages at the manufacturer’s nominal de-
sign position for a 50th percentile adult 
male occupant. Retract any folding 
armrest. 


## Page 20

1051 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
(a) Upper torso. 
(1) The plane of symmetry of the 
dummy coincides with the vertical me-
dian plane of the specified seating posi-
tion. 
(2) Bend the upper torso forward and 
then lay it back against the seat back. 
Set the shoulders of the dummy fully 
rearward. 
(b) Pelvis. Position the pelvis of the 
dummy according to the following: 
(1) Position the pelvis of the dummy 
such 
that 
a 
lateral 
line 
passing 
through the dummy H-points is perpen-
dicular to the longitudinal center plane 
of the seat. The line through the 
dummy H-points is horizontal with a 
maximum inclination of ±2 degrees. 
The dummy may be equipped with tilt 
sensors in the thorax and the pelvis. 
These instruments can help to obtain 
the desired position. 
(2) 
The 
correct 
position 
of 
the 
dummy pelvis may be checked relative 
to the H-point of the H-point Manikin 
by using the M3 holes in the H-point 
back plates at each side of the ES–2re 
pelvis. Position the dummy such that 
the M3 holes are located within a circle 
of radius 10 mm (0.39 in.) around the H- 
point of the H-point Manikin. 
(c) Arms. Place the dummy’s upper 
arms such that the angle between the 
projection of the arm centerline on the 
mid-sagittal plane of the dummy and 
the torso reference line is 40° ±5°. The 
torso reference line is defined as the 
thoracic spine centerline. The shoul-
der-arm joint allows for discrete arm 
positions at 0, 40, and 90 degree settings 
forward of the spine. 
(d) Legs and Feet. Position the legs 
and feet of the dummy according to the 
following: 
(1) For the driver’s seating position, 
without inducing pelvis or torso move-
ment, place the right foot of the 
dummy on the un-pressed accelerator 
pedal with the heel resting as far for-
ward as possible on the floor pan. Set 
the left foot perpendicular to the lower 
leg with the heel resting on the floor 
pan in the same lateral line as the 
right heel. Set the knees of the dummy 
such that their outside surfaces are 150 
±10 mm (5.9 ±0.4 inches) from the plane 
of symmetry of the dummy. If possible 
within these constraints, place the 
thighs of the dummy in contact with 
the seat cushion. 
(2) For other seating positions, with-
out inducing pelvis or torso movement, 
place the heels of the dummy as far 
forward as possible on the floor pan 
without compressing the seat cushion 
more than the compression due to the 
weight of the leg. Set the knees of the 
dummy such that their outside sur-
faces are 150 ±10 mm (5.9 ±0.4 inches) 
from the plane of symmetry of the 
dummy. 
S12.3
5th 
percentile 
female 
test 
dummy—49 CFR Part 572 Subpart V (SID– 
IIs). Position a correctly configured 5th 
percentile female Part 572 Subpart V 
(SID–IIs) test dummy, conforming to 
the applicable requirements of part 572 
of this chapter, in the front outboard 
seating position on the side of the test 
vehicle to be struck by the pole and, 
for the moving deformable barrier, if 
the vehicle has a second seat, position 
a conforming test dummy in the second 
seat outboard position on the same side 
of the vehicle (side to be struck) as 
specified in S12.3.4. Retract any folding 
armrest. 
Additional 
procedures 
are 
specified below. 
S12.3.1
General provisions and defini-
tions. 
(a) Measure all angles with respect to 
the horizontal plane unless otherwise 
stated. 
(b) Adjust the SID–IIs dummy’s neck 
bracket to align the zero degree index 
marks. 
(c) Other seat adjustments. The lon-
gitudinal centerline of a bucket seat 
cushion passes through the SgRP and 
is parallel to the longitudinal center-
line of the vehicle. 
(d) Driver and any front outboard pas-
senger dummy manual belt adjustment. 
Use all available belt systems. Place 
adjustable 
belt 
anchorages 
at 
the 
nominal position for a 5th percentile 
adult female suggested by the vehicle 
manufacturer. 
(e) Definitions. 
(1) The term ‘‘midsagittal plane’’ re-
fers to the vertical plane that sepa-
rates the dummy into equal left and 
right halves. 
(2) The term ‘‘vertical longitudinal 
plane’’ refers to a vertical plane par-
allel to the vehicle’s longitudinal cen-
terline. 


## Page 21

1052 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
(3) The term ‘‘vertical plane’’ refers 
to a vertical plane, not necessarily par-
allel to the vehicle’s longitudinal cen-
terline. 
(4) The term ‘‘transverse instrumen-
tation platform’’ refers to the trans-
verse instrumentation surface inside 
the dummy’s skull casting to which 
the neck load cell mounts. This surface 
is perpendicular to the skull cap’s ma-
chined inferior-superior mounting sur-
face. 
(5) The term ‘‘thigh’’ refers to the 
femur between, but not including, the 
knee and the pelvis. 
(6) The term ‘‘leg’’ refers to the lower 
part of the entire leg including the 
knee. 
(7) The term ‘‘foot’’ refers to the foot, 
including the ankle. 
(8) For leg and thigh angles, use the 
following references: 
(i) Thigh—a straight line on the 
thigh skin between the center of the 1⁄2- 
13 UNC–2B tapped hole in the upper leg 
femur clamp and the knee pivot shoul-
der bolt. 
(ii) Leg—a straight line on the leg 
skin between the center of the ankle 
shell and the knee pivot shoulder bolt. 
(9) The term ‘‘seat cushion reference 
point’’ (SCRP) means a point placed on 
the outboard side of the seat cushion at 
a horizontal distance between 150 mm 
(5.9 in) and 250 mm (9.8 in) from the 
front edge of the seat used as a guide in 
positioning the seat. 
(10) The term ‘‘seat cushion reference 
line’’ means a line on the side of the 
seat cushion, passing through the seat 
cushion reference point, whose projec-
tion in the vehicle vertical longitu-
dinal plane is straight and has a known 
angle with respect to the horizontal. 
S12.3.2
5th percentile female driver 
dummy positioning. 
(a) Driver torso/head/seat back angle 
positioning. 
(1) With the seat in the position de-
termined in S10.3.2, use only the con-
trol that moves the seat fore and aft to 
place the seat in the rearmost position. 
If the seat cushion reference line angle 
automatically changes as the seat is 
moved from the full forward position, 
maintain, as closely as possible, the 
seat cushion reference line angle deter-
mined in S10.3.2.3.3, for the final for-
ward position when measuring the pel-
vic angle as specified in S12.3.2(a)(11). 
The seat cushion reference line angle 
position may be achieved through the 
use of any seat or seat cushion adjust-
ments other than that which primarily 
moves the seat or seat cushion fore-aft. 
(2) Fully recline the seat back, if ad-
justable. Install the dummy into the 
driver’s seat, such that when the legs 
are positioned 120 degrees to the 
thighs, the calves of the legs are not 
touching the seat cushion. 
(3) Bucket seats. Center the dummy 
on 
the 
seat 
cushion 
so 
that 
its 
midsagittal plane is vertical and passes 
through the SgRP within ±10 mm (±0.4 
in). 
(4) 
Bench 
seats. 
Position 
the 
midsagittal 
plane 
of 
the 
dummy 
vertical and parallel to the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline and aligned 
within ±10 mm (±0.4 in) of the center of 
the steering control rim. 
(5) Hold the dummy’s thighs down 
and push rearward on the upper torso 
to maximize the dummy’s pelvic angle. 
(6) Place the legs at 120 degrees to 
the thighs. Set the initial transverse 
distance 
between 
the 
longitudinal 
centerlines at the front of the dummy’s 
knees at 160 to 170 mm (6.3 to 6.7 in), 
with the thighs and legs of the dummy 
in vertical planes. Push rearward on 
the dummy’s knees to force the pelvis 
into the seat so there is no gap between 
the pelvis and the seat back or until 
contact occurs between the back of the 
dummy’s calves and the front of the 
seat cushion. 
(7) Gently rock the upper torso rel-
ative to the lower torso laterally in a 
side 
to 
side 
motion 
three 
times 
through a ±5 degree arc (approximately 
51 mm (2 in) side to side). 
(8) If needed, extend the legs slightly 
so that the feet are not in contact with 
the floor pan. Let the thighs rest on 
the seat cushion to the extent per-
mitted by the foot movement. Keeping 
the leg and the thigh in a vertical 
plane, place the foot in the vertical 
longitudinal plane that passes through 
the centerline of the accelerator pedal. 
Rotate the left thigh outboard about 
the hip until the center of the knee is 
the same distance from the midsagittal 
plane of the dummy as the right knee 
±5 mm (±0.2 in). Using only the control 


## Page 22

1053 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
that moves the seat fore and aft, at-
tempt to return the seat to the full for-
ward position. If either of the dummy’s 
legs first contacts the steering control, 
then adjust the steering control, if ad-
justable, upward until contact with the 
steering control is avoided. If the steer-
ing control is not adjustable, separate 
the knees enough to avoid steering 
control contact. Proceed with moving 
the seat forward until either the leg 
contacts the vehicle interior or the 
seat reaches the full forward position. 
(The right foot may contact and de-
press the accelerator and/or change the 
angle of the foot with respect to the leg 
during seat movement.) If necessary to 
avoid contact with the vehicle’s brake 
or clutch pedal, rotate the test dum-
my’s left foot about the leg. If there is 
still interference, rotate the left thigh 
outboard about the hip the minimum 
distance necessary to avoid pedal inter-
ference. If a dummy leg contacts the 
vehicle interior before the full forward 
position is attained, position the seat 
at the next detent where there is no 
contact. If the seat is a power seat, 
move the seat fore and aft to avoid 
contact while assuring that there is a 
maximum of 5 mm (0.2 in) distance be-
tween the vehicle interior and the 
point on the dummy that would first 
contact the vehicle interior. If the 
steering control was moved, return it 
to the position described in S10.5. If the 
steering control contacts the dummy’s 
leg(s) prior to attaining this position, 
adjust it to the next higher detent, or 
if infinitely adjustable, until there is 5 
mm (0.2 in) clearance between the con-
trol and the dummy’s leg(s). 
(9) Head leveling. 
(i) Vehicles with fixed seat backs. Ad-
just the lower neck bracket to level the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle of the head to within ±0.5 de-
grees. If it is not possible to level the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
to within ±0.5 degrees, select the neck 
bracket adjustment position that mini-
mizes the difference between the trans-
verse instrumentation platform angle 
and level. 
(ii) Vehicles with adjustable seat backs. 
While holding the thighs in place, ro-
tate the seat back forward until the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle of the head is level to within ±0.5 
degrees, making sure that the pelvis 
does not interfere with the seat bight. 
(If the torso contacts the steering con-
trol, use S12.3.2(a)(10) before proceeding 
with the remaining portion of this 
paragraph.) If it is not possible to level 
the transverse instrumentation plat-
form to within ±0.5 degrees, select the 
seat back adjustment position that 
minimizes the difference between the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle and level, then adjust the neck 
bracket to level the transverse instru-
mentation platform angle to within 
±0.5 degrees if possible. If it is still not 
possible to level the transverse instru-
mentation platform to within ±0.5 de-
grees, select the neck bracket angle po-
sition that minimizes the difference be-
tween the transverse instrumentation 
platform angle and level. 
(10) If the torso contacts the steering 
control, adjust the steering control in 
the following order until there is no 
contact: Telescoping adjustment, low-
ering adjustment, raising adjustment. 
If the vehicle has no adjustments or 
contact with the steering control can-
not be eliminated by adjustment, posi-
tion the seat at the next detent where 
there is no contact with the steering 
control as adjusted in S10.5. If the seat 
is a power seat, position the seat to 
avoid contact while assuring that there 
is a maximum of 5 mm (0.2 in) distance 
between the steering control as ad-
justed in S10.5 and the point of contact 
on the dummy. 
(11) Measure and set the dummy’s 
pelvic angle using the pelvic angle 
gage. The angle is set to 20.0 degrees 
±2.5 degrees. If this is not possible, ad-
just the pelvic angle as close to 20.0 de-
grees as possible while keeping the 
transverse instrumentation platform of 
the head as level as possible by adjust-
ments specified in S12.3.2(a)(9). 
(12) If the dummy is contacting the 
vehicle interior after these adjust-
ments, move the seat rearward until 
there is a maximum of 5 mm (0.2 in) be-
tween the contact point of the dummy 
and the interior of the vehicle or if it 
has a manual seat adjustment, to the 
next rearward detent position. If after 
these adjustments, the dummy contact 
point is more than 5 mm (0.2 in) from 
the vehicle interior and the seat is still 
not in its forwardmost position, move 


## Page 23

1054 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
the seat forward until the contact 
point is 5 mm (0.2 in) or less from the 
vehicle interior, or if it has a manual 
seat adjustment, move the seat to the 
closest detent position without making 
contact, or until the seat reaches its 
forwardmost position, whichever oc-
curs first. 
(b) Driver foot positioning. 
(1) If the vehicle has an adjustable 
accelerator pedal, adjust it to the full 
forward position. If the heel of the 
right foot can contact the floor pan, 
follow the positioning procedure in 
S12.3.2(b)(1)(i). If not, follow the posi-
tioning procedure in S12.3.2(b)(1)(ii). 
(i) Rest the right foot of the test 
dummy on the un-depressed accel-
erator pedal with the rearmost point of 
the heel on the floor pan in the plane of 
the pedal. If the foot cannot be placed 
on the accelerator pedal, set it ini-
tially perpendicular to the leg and then 
place it as far forward as possible in 
the direction of the pedal centerline 
with the rearmost point of the heel 
resting on the floor pan. If the vehicle 
has an adjustable accelerator pedal and 
the right foot is not touching the ac-
celerator pedal when positioned as 
above, move the pedal rearward until it 
touches the right foot. If the accel-
erator pedal in the full rearward posi-
tion still does not touch the foot, leave 
the pedal in that position. 
(ii) Extend the foot and lower leg by 
decreasing the knee flexion angle until 
any part of the foot contacts the un-de-
pressed accelerator pedal or the high-
est part of the foot is at the same 
height as the highest part of the pedal. 
If the vehicle has an adjustable accel-
erator pedal and the right foot is not 
touching the accelerator pedal when 
positioned as above, move the pedal 
rearward until it touches the right 
foot. 
(2) If the ball of the foot does not 
contact the pedal, increase the ankle 
plantar flexion angle such that the toe 
of the foot contacts or is as close as 
possible to contact with the un-de-
pressed accelerator pedal. 
(3) If, in its final position, the heel is 
off of the vehicle floor, a spacer block 
is used under the heel to support the 
final foot position. The surface of the 
block in contact with the heel has an 
inclination of 30 degrees, measured 
from the horizontal, with the highest 
surface towards the rear of the vehicle. 
(4) Place the left foot on the toe- 
board with the rearmost point of the 
heel resting on the floor pan as close as 
possible to the point of intersection of 
the planes described by the toe-board 
and floor pan, and not on or in contact 
with the vehicle’s brake pedal, clutch 
pedal, wheel-well projection or foot 
rest, except as provided in S12.3.2(b)(6). 
(5) If the left foot cannot be posi-
tioned on the toe board, place the foot 
perpendicular to the lower leg center-
line as far forward as possible with the 
heel resting on the floor pan. 
(6) If the left foot does not contact 
the floor pan, place the foot parallel to 
the floor and place the leg as perpen-
dicular to the thigh as possible. If nec-
essary to avoid contact with the vehi-
cle’s brake pedal, clutch pedal, wheel- 
well, or foot rest, use the three foot po-
sition 
adjustments 
listed 
in 
S12.3.2(b)(6)(i) through (iii). The adjust-
ment options are listed in priority 
order, with each subsequent option in-
corporating the previous. In making 
each adjustment, move the foot the 
minimum distance necessary to avoid 
contact. If it is not possible to avoid all 
prohibited foot contact, priority is 
given to avoiding brake or clutch pedal 
contact: 
(i) Rotate (abduction/adduction) the 
test dummy’s left foot about the lower 
leg; 
(ii) Planar flex the foot; 
(iii) Rotate the left leg outboard 
about the hip. 
(c) Driver arm/hand positioning. Place 
the dummy’s upper arm such that the 
angle between the projection of the 
arm centerline on the midsagittal 
plane of the dummy and the torso ref-
erence line is 45° ±5°. The torso ref-
erence line is defined as the thoracic 
spine 
centerline. 
The 
shoulder-arm 
joint allows for discrete arm positions 
at 0, ±45, ±90, ±135, and 180 degree set-
tings where positive is forward of the 
spine. 
S12.3.3
5th percentile female front pas-
senger dummy positioning. 
(a) Passenger torso/head/seat back angle 
positioning. 
(1) With the seat at the mid-height in 
the full-forward position determined in 


## Page 24

1055 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
S10.3.2, use only the control that pri-
marily moves the seat fore and aft to 
place the seat in the rearmost position, 
without adjusting independent height 
controls. If the seat cushion reference 
line angle automatically changes as 
the seat is moved from the full forward 
position, maintain, as closely as pos-
sible, the seat cushion reference line 
angle determined in S10.3.2.3.3, for the 
final forward position when measuring 
the 
pelvic 
angle 
as 
specified 
in 
S12.3.3(a)(11). The seat cushion ref-
erence line angle position may be 
achieved through the use of any seat or 
seat cushion adjustments other than 
that which primarily moves the seat or 
seat cushion fore-aft. 
(2) Fully recline the seat back, if ad-
justable. Place the dummy into any 
passenger seat, such that when the legs 
are positioned 120 degrees to the 
thighs, the calves of the legs are not 
touching the seat cushion. 
(3) Bucket seats. Place the dummy on 
the seat cushion so that its midsagittal 
plane is vertical and passes through 
the SgRP within ±10 mm (±0.4 in). 
(4) 
Bench 
seats. 
Position 
the 
midsagittal 
plane 
of 
the 
dummy 
vertical and parallel to the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline and the same 
distance from the vehicle’s longitu-
dinal centerline, within ±10 mm (±0.4 
in), as the midsagittal plane of the 
driver dummy, if there is a driver’s 
seating 
position. 
Otherwise, 
the 
midsagittal plane of any front out-
board 
passenger 
dummy 
shall 
be 
vertical, parallel to the vehicle’s longi-
tudinal centerline, and pass, within ±10 
mm (±0.4 in), through the seating ref-
erence point of the seating that it oc-
cupies. 
(5) Hold the dummy’s thighs down 
and push rearward on the upper torso 
to maximize the dummy’s pelvic angle. 
(6) Place the legs at 120 degrees to 
the thighs. Set the initial transverse 
distance 
between 
the 
longitudinal 
centerlines at the front of the dummy’s 
knees at 160 to 170 mm (6.3 to 6.7 in), 
with the thighs and legs of the dummy 
in vertical planes. Push rearward on 
the dummy’s knees to force the pelvis 
into the seat so there is no gap between 
the pelvis and the seat back or until 
contact occurs between the back of the 
dummy’s calves and the front of the 
seat cushion. 
(7) Gently rock the upper torso rel-
ative to the lower torso laterally in a 
side 
to 
side 
motion 
three 
times 
through a ±5 degree arc (approximately 
51 mm (2 in) side to side). 
(8) If needed, extend the legs slightly 
so that the feet are not in contact with 
the floor pan. Let the thighs rest on 
the seat cushion to the extent per-
mitted by the foot movement. With the 
feet perpendicular to the legs, place 
the heels on the floor pan. If a heel will 
not contact the floor pan, place it as 
close to the floor pan as possible. Using 
only the control that primarily moves 
the seat fore and aft, attempt to return 
the seat to the full forward position. If 
a dummy leg contacts the vehicle inte-
rior before the full forward position is 
attained, position the seat at the next 
detent where there is no contact. If the 
seats are power seats, position the seat 
to avoid contact while assuring that 
there is a maximum of 5 mm (0.2 in) 
distance between the vehicle interior 
and the point on the dummy that 
would first contact the vehicle inte-
rior. 
(9) Head leveling. 
(i) Vehicles with fixed seat backs. Ad-
just the lower neck bracket to level the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle of the head to within ±0.5 de-
grees. If it is not possible to level the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
to within ±0.5 degrees, select the neck 
bracket adjustment position that mini-
mizes the difference between the trans-
verse instrumentation platform angle 
and level. 
(ii) Vehicles with adjustable seat backs. 
While holding the thighs in place, ro-
tate the seat back forward until the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle of the head is level to within ±0.5 
degrees, making sure that the pelvis 
does not interfere with the seat bight. 
If it is not possible to level the trans-
verse 
instrumentation 
platform 
to 
within ±0.5 degrees, select the seat 
back adjustment position that mini-
mizes the difference between the trans-
verse instrumentation platform angle 
and level, then adjust the neck bracket 
to level the transverse instrumentation 
platform angle to within ±0.5 degrees if 
possible. If it is still not possible to 


## Page 25

1056 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
level the transverse instrumentation 
platform to within ±0.5 degrees, select 
the neck bracket angle position that 
minimizes the difference between the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle and level. 
(10) Measure and set the dummy’s 
pelvic angle using the pelvic angle 
gage. The angle is set to 20.0 degrees 
±2.5 degrees. If this is not possible, ad-
just the pelvic angle as close to 20.0 de-
grees as possible while keeping the 
transverse instrumentation platform of 
the head as level as possible by adjust-
ments specified in S12.3.2(a)(9). 
(11) If the dummy is contacting the 
vehicle interior after these adjust-
ments, move the seat rearward until 
there is a maximum of 5 mm (0.2 in) be-
tween the contact point of the dummy 
and the interior of the vehicle or if it 
has a manual seat adjustment, to the 
next rearward detent position. If after 
these adjustments, the dummy contact 
point is more than 5 mm (0.2 in) from 
the vehicle interior and the seat is still 
not in its forwardmost position, move 
the seat forward until the contact 
point is 5 mm (0.2 in) or less from the 
vehicle interior, or if it has a manual 
seat adjustment, move the seat to the 
closest detent position without making 
contact, or until the seat reaches its 
forwardmost position, whichever oc-
curs first. 
(b) Passenger foot positioning. 
(1) Place the front passenger’s feet 
flat on the toe board. 
(2) If the feet cannot be placed flat on 
the toe board, set them perpendicular 
to the leg center lines and place them 
as far forward as possible with the 
heels resting on the floor pan. 
(3) If either foot does not contact the 
floor pan, place the foot parallel to the 
floor pan and place the lower leg as 
perpendicular to the thigh as possible. 
(c) Passenger arm/hand positioning. 
Place the dummy’s upper arm such 
that the angle between the projection 
of 
the 
arm 
centerline 
on 
the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy and 
the torso reference line is 45° ±5°. The 
torso reference line is defined as the 
thoracic spine centerline. The shoul-
der-arm joint allows for discrete arm 
positions at 0, ±45, ±90, ±135, and 180 de-
gree settings where positive is forward 
of the spine. 
S12.3.4
5th percentile female in rear 
outboard seating positions. 
(a) Set the rear outboard seat at the 
full rearward, full down position deter-
mined in S8.3.3. 
(b) Fully recline the seat back, if ad-
justable. Install the dummy into the 
passenger’s seat, such that when the 
legs are 120 degrees to the thighs, the 
calves of the legs are not touching the 
seat cushion. 
(c) Place the dummy on the seat 
cushion so that its midsagittal plane is 
vertical and coincides with the vertical 
longitudinal plane through the center 
of the seating position SgRP within ±10 
mm (±0.4 in). 
(d) Hold the dummy’s thighs down 
and push rearward on the upper torso 
to maximize the dummy’s pelvic angle. 
(e) Place the legs at 120 degrees to 
the thighs. Set the initial transverse 
distance 
between 
the 
longitudinal 
centerlines at the front of the dummy’s 
knees at 160 to 170 mm (6.3 to 6.7 in), 
with the thighs and legs of the dummy 
in vertical planes. Push rearward on 
the dummy’s knees to force the pelvis 
into the seat so there is no gap between 
the pelvis and the seat back or until 
contact occurs between the back of the 
dummy’s calves and the front of the 
seat cushion. 
(f) Gently rock the upper torso lat-
erally side to side three times through 
a ±5 degree arc (approximately 51 mm 
(2 in) side to side). 
(g) If needed, extend the legs slightly 
so that the feet are not in contact with 
the floor pan. Let the thighs rest on 
the seat cushion to the extent per-
mitted by the foot movement. With the 
feet perpendicular to the legs, place 
the heels on the floor pan. If a heel will 
not contact the floor pan, place it as 
close to the floor pan as possible. 
(h) Head leveling. 
(1) Vehicles with fixed seat backs. 
Adjust the lower neck bracket to level 
the transverse instrumentation plat-
form angle of the head to within ±0.5 
degrees. If it is not possible to level the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
to within ±0.5 degrees, select the neck 
bracket adjustment position that mini-
mizes the difference between the trans-
verse instrumentation platform angle 
and level. 


## Page 26

1057 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.214 
(2) Vehicles with adjustable seat 
backs. While holding the thighs in 
place, rotate the seat back forward 
until the transverse instrumentation 
platform angle of the head is level to 
within ±0.5 degrees, making sure that 
the pelvis does not interfere with the 
seat bight. If it is not possible to level 
the transverse instrumentation plat-
form to within ±0.5 degrees, select the 
seat back adjustment position that 
minimizes the difference between the 
transverse instrumentation platform 
angle and level, then adjust the neck 
bracket to level the transverse instru-
mentation platform angle to within 
±0.5 degrees if possible. If it is still not 
possible to level the transverse instru-
mentation platform to within ±0.5 de-
grees, select the neck bracket angle po-
sition that minimizes the difference be-
tween the transverse instrumentation 
platform angle and level. 
(i) [Reserved] 
(j) Measure and set the dummy’s pel-
vic angle using the pelvic angle gauge. 
The angle is set to 20.0 degrees ±2.5 de-
grees. If this is not possible, adjust the 
pelvic angle as close to 20.0 degrees as 
possible while keeping the transverse 
instrumentation platform of the head 
as level as possible, as specified in 
S12.3.4(h). 
(k) Passenger foot positioning. 
(1) Place the rear seat passenger’s 
feet flat on the floor pan and beneath 
the front seat as far as possible with-
out front seat interference. 
(2) If either foot does not contact the 
floor pan, place the foot parallel to the 
floor and place the leg as perpendicular 
to the thigh as possible. 
(l) Passenger arm/hand positioning. 
Place the rear dummy’s upper arm 
such that the angle between the projec-
tion of the arm centerline on the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy and 
the torso reference line is 45° ±5°. The 
torso reference line is defined as the 
thoracic spine centerline. The shoul-
der-arm joint allows for discrete arm 
positions at 0, ±45, ±90, ±135, and 180 de-
gree settings where positive is forward 
of the spine. 
S13
Phase-in of moving deformable 
barrier and vehicle-to-pole performance 
requirements. 
S13.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2010 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2014. At anytime during the 
production years ending August 31, 
2011, August 31, 2012, August 31, 2013, 
and August 31, 2014, each manufacturer 
shall, upon request from the Office of 
Vehicle Safety Compliance, provide in-
formation identifying the vehicles (by 
make, model and vehicle identification 
number) that have been certified as 
complying with the moving deformable 
barrier test with advanced test dum-
mies (S7.2), or the vehicles (by make, 
model and vehicle identification num-
ber) that have been certified as com-
plying with the vehicle-to-pole test re-
quirements (S9.1) of this standard. The 
manufacturer’s designation of a vehicle 
as a certified vehicle meeting S7.2 or 
S9.1 is irrevocable. 
S13.1.1
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2010 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2011. 
(a) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2010 
and before September 1, 2011, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S7.2 
shall be not less than 20 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
(b) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2010 
and before September 1, 2011, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S9.1 
shall be not less than 20 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
S13.1.2
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2011 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2012. 
(a) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2011 
and before September 1, 2012, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S7.2 
shall be not less than 40 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 


## Page 27

1058 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.214 
(b) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2011 
and before September 1, 2012, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S9.1 
shall be not less than 40 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
S13.1.3
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2012 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2013. 
(a) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2012 
and before September 1, 2013, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S7.2 
shall be not less than 60 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
(b) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2012 
and before September 1, 2013, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S9.1 
shall be not less than 60 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
S13.1.4
Vehicles manufactured on or 
after September 1, 2013 and before Sep-
tember 1, 2014. 
(a) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2013 
and before September 1, 2014, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S7.2 
shall be not less than 80 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
(b) Subject to S13.4, for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after September 1, 2013 
and before September 1, 2014, the num-
ber of vehicles complying with S9.1 
shall be not less than 80 percent of: 
(1) The manufacturer’s average an-
nual production of vehicles manufac-
tured in the three previous production 
years; or 
(2) The manufacturer’s production in 
the current production year. 
S13.2
Vehicles produced by more than 
one manufacturer. 
S13.2.1
For the purpose of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S13.1.1 and 
S13.1.2, a vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer shall be attrib-
uted to a single manufacturer as fol-
lows, subject to S13.2.2. 
(a) A vehicle that is imported shall 
be attributed to the importer. 
(b) A vehicle manufactured in the 
United States by more than one manu-
facturer, one of which also markets the 
vehicle, shall be attributed to the man-
ufacturer that markets the vehicle. 
S13.2.2
A vehicle produced by more 
than one manufacturer shall be attrib-
uted to any one of the vehicle’s manu-
facturers specified by an express writ-
ten contract, reported to the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
under 49 CFR part 585, between the 
manufacturer so specified and the man-
ufacturer to which the vehicle would 
otherwise be attributed under S13.2.1. 
S13.3(a) For the purposes of calcu-
lating average annual production of ve-
hicles for each manufacturer and the 
number of vehicles manufactured by 
each manufacturer under S13.1.1(a), 
S13.1.2(a), S13.1.3(a), and S13.1.4(a), do 
not count any vehicle that is excluded 
by Standard No. 214 from the moving 
deformable barrier test with the ES–2re 
or SID–IIs test dummies (S7.2). 
(b) For the purposes of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer under S13.1.1(b), S13.1.2(b), 
S13.1.3(b), and S13.1.4(b), do not count 
any vehicle that is excluded by Stand-
ard No. 214 from the vehicle-to-pole 
test (S9). 
S13.4
Calculation of complying vehi-
cles. 
(a) For the purposes of calculating 
the vehicles complying with S13.1.1, a 
manufacturer may count a vehicle if it 
is manufactured on or after October 11, 
2007 but before September 1, 2011. 
(b) For purposes of complying with 
S13.1.2, a manufacturer may count a 
vehicle if it— 


## Page 28

1059 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.216 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2012 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1. 
(c) For purposes of complying with 
S13.1.3, a manufacturer may count a 
vehicle if it— 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2013 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1 or S13.1.2. 
(d) For purposes of complying with 
S13.1.4, a manufacturer may count a 
vehicle if it— 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2014 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1, S13.1.2, or S13.1.3. 
(e) For the purposes of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer, each vehicle that is excluded 
from having to meet the applicable re-
quirement is not counted. 
[72 FR 51957, Sept. 11, 2007, as amended at 73 
FR 32483, June 9, 2008; 75 FR 12139, Mar. 15, 
2010; 77 FR 767, Jan. 6, 2012; 76 FR 52884, Aug. 
24, 2011; 77 FR 70914, Nov. 28, 2012; 85 FR 85535, 
Dec. 29, 2020; 87 FR 39310, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 
18597, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.215
[Reserved] 
§ 571.216
Standard No. 216; Roof crush 
resistance; Applicable unless a vehi-
cle is certified to § 571.216a. 
S1. Scope. This standard establishes 
strength requirements for the pas-
senger compartment roof. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce deaths and inju-
ries due to the crushing of the roof into 
the occupant compartment in rollover 
crashes. 
S3. Application. (a) This standard ap-
plies to passenger cars, and to multi-
purpose passenger vehicles, trucks and 
buses with a GVWR of 2,722 kilograms 
(6,000 pounds) or less. However, it does 
not apply to— 
(a) School buses; 
(b) Vehicles that conform to the roll-
over test requirements (S5.3) of Stand-
ard No. 208 (§ 571.208) by means that re-
quire no action by vehicle occupants; 
(c) Convertibles, except for optional 
compliance with the standard as an al-
ternative to the rollover test require-
ments in S5.3 of Standard No. 208; or 
(d) Vehicles certified to comply with 
§ 571.216a. 
S4. Definitions. 
Altered roof means the replacement 
roof on a motor vehicle whose original 
roof has been removed, in part or in 
total, and replaced by a roof that is 
higher than the original roof. The re-
placement roof on a motor vehicle 
whose original roof has been replaced, 
in whole or in part, by a roof that con-
sists of glazing materials, such as those 
in T-tops and sunroofs, and is located 
at the level of the original roof, is not 
considered to be an altered roof. 
Raised roof means, with respect to a 
roof which includes an area that pro-
trudes above the surrounding exterior 
roof structure, that protruding area of 
the roof. 
Roof over the front seat area means the 
portion of the roof, including wind-
shield trim, forward of a transverse 
vertical plane passing through a point 
162 mm rearward of the SgRP of the 
rearmost front outboard seating posi-
tion. 
Windshield trim means molding of any 
material between the windshield glaz-
ing and the exterior roof surface, in-
cluding material that covers a part of 
either the windshield glazing or exte-
rior roof surface. 
S5. Requirements. Subject to S5.1, 
when the test device described in S6 is 
used to apply a force to either side of 
the forward edge of a vehicle’s roof in 
accordance with the procedures of S7, 
the lower surface of the test device 
must not move more than 127 millime-
ters. The applied force in Newtons is 
equal to 1.5 times the unloaded vehicle 
weight of the vehicle, measured in 
kilograms and multiplied by 9.8, but 
does not exceed 22,240 Newtons for pas-
senger cars. Both the left and right 
front portions of the vehicle’s roof 
structure must be capable of meeting 
the requirements. A particular vehicle 
need not meet further requirements 
after being tested at one location. 
S5.1 For multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles, trucks and buses that have a 
raised roof or altered roof, manufactur-
ers have the option of using the test 


