## Page 1

763 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.203 
[72 FR 25514, May 4, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 67246, Nov. 2, 2010; 77 FR 761, Jan. 6, 2012] 
§ 571.203
Standard 
No. 
203; 
Impact 
protection for the driver from the 
steering control system. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
specifies requirements for steering con-
trol systems that will minimize chest, 
neck, and facial injuries to the driver 
as a result of impact. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
with a gross vehicle weight rating of 
4,536 kg or less. However, it does not 
apply to vehicles that conform to the 
frontal 
barrier 
crash 
requirements 
(S5.1) of Standard No. 208 (49 CFR 
571.208) by means of other than seat 
belt assemblies. It also does not apply 
to walk-in vans or vehicles without a 
steering control. 
S3. [Reserved] 
S4. Requirements. Each passenger car 
and each multipurpose passenger vehi-
cle, truck and bus with a gross vehicle 


## Page 2

764 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.204 
weight rating of 4,536 kg or less manu-
factured on or after September 1, 1981 
shall meet the requirements of S5.1 and 
S5.2. 
S5. Impact protection requirements. 
S5.1
Except as provided in this para-
graph, the steering control system of 
any vehicle to which this standard ap-
plies shall be impacted in accordance 
with S5.1(a). 
(a) When the steering control system 
is impacted by a body block in accord-
ance with SAE Recommended Practice 
J944 JUN80 (incorporated by reference, 
see § 571.5), at a relative velocity of 24 
km/h, the impact force developed on 
the chest of the body block trans-
mitted to the steering control system 
shall not exceed 11,120 N, except for in-
tervals whose cumulative duration is 
not more than 3 milliseconds. 
(b) [Reserved] 
S5.2
The steering control system 
shall be so constructed that no compo-
nents or attachments, including horn 
actuating mechanisms and trim hard-
ware, can catch the driver’s clothing or 
jewelry during normal driving maneu-
vers. 
NOTE: The term jewelry refers to watches, 
rings, and bracelets without loosely attached 
or dangling members. 
[36 FR 22902, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 44 
FR 68475, Nov. 29, 1979; 47 FR 47842, Oct. 28, 
1982; 58 FR 26527, May 4, 1993; 58 FR 63304, 
Dec. 1, 1993; 63 FR 28935, May 27, 1998; 63 FR 
51003, Sept. 24, 1998; 76 FR 762, Jan. 6, 2012; 87 
FR 18588, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.204
Standard No. 204; Steering 
control rearward displacement. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
specifies requirements limiting the 
rearward displacement of the steering 
control into the passenger compart-
ment to reduce the likelihood of chest, 
neck, or head injury. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses. 
However, it does not apply to walk-in 
vans or vehicles without steering con-
trols. 
S3. Definitions. 
Steering column means a structural 
housing that surrounds a steering 
shaft. 
Steering shaft means a component 
that transmits steering torque from 
the steering wheel to the steering gear. 
S4
Requirements. 
S4.1
Vehicles 
manufactured 
before 
September 1, 1991. When a passenger car 
or a truck, bus, or multipurpose pas-
senger vehicle with a gross vehicle 
weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less 
and an unloaded vehicle weight of 4,000 
pounds or less is tested under the con-
ditions of S5 in a 30 mile per hour per-
pendicular impact into a fixed collision 
barrier, the upper end of the steering 
column and shaft in the vehicle shall 
not be displaced more than 5 inches in 
a horizontal rearward direction par-
allel to the longitudinal axis of the ve-
hicle. The amount of displacement 
shall be measured relative to an undis-
turbed point on the vehicle and shall 
represent 
the 
maximum 
dynamic 
movement of the upper end of the 
steering column and shaft during the 
crash test. 
S4.2 Vehicles manufactured on or after 
September 1, 1991. When a passenger car 
or a truck, bus or multipurpose pas-
senger vehicle with a gross vehicle 
weight rating of 4,536 kg or less and an 
unloaded vehicle weight of 2,495 kg or 
less is tested under the conditions of S5 
in a 48 km/h perpendicular impact into 
a fixed collision barrier, the upper end 
of the steering column and shaft in the 
vehicle shall not be displaced more 
than 127 mm in a horizontal rearward 
direction parallel to the longitudinal 
axis of the vehicle. The amount of dis-
placement shall be measured relative 
to an undisturbed point on the vehicle 
and shall represent the maximum dy-
namic movement of the upper end of 
the steering column and shaft during 
the crash test. 
S5.
Test 
conditions. 
The 
require-
ments of S4 shall be met when the ve-
hicle is tested in accordance with the 
following conditions. 
S5.1
The vehicle, including test de-
vices and instrumentation, is loaded to 
its unloaded vehicle weight. 
S5.2
Adjustable 
steering 
controls 
are adjusted so that a tilting steering 
wheel hub is at the geometric center of 
the locus it describes when it is moved 
through its full range of driving posi-
tions. A telescoping steering control is 
set at the adjustment position midway 
between 
the 
forwardmost 
and 
rearwardmost position. 


