## Page 1

930 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
Standard No. 208. Each dummy is re-
strained only by means that are in-
stalled for protection at its seating po-
sition. The load is distributed so that 
the weight on each axle as measured at 
the tire-ground interface is in propor-
tion to its GAWR. If the weight on any 
axle when the vehicle is loaded to its 
unloaded vehicle weight plus dummy 
weight exceeds the axle’s proportional 
share of the test weight, the remaining 
weight is placed so that the weight on 
that axle remains the same. For the 
purposes of this section, unloaded vehi-
cle weight does not include the weight 
of work-performing accessories. Vehi-
cles are tested to a maximum unloaded 
vehicle weight of 2,495 kilograms. 
S6.2
The fuel tank is filled to any 
level from 90 to 95 percent of capacity. 
S6.3
The 
parking 
brake 
is 
dis-
engaged and the transmission is in neu-
tral. 
S6.4
Tires are inflated to the vehicle 
manufacturer’s specifications. 
S6.5
The windshield mounting mate-
rial and all vehicle components in di-
rect contact with the mounting mate-
rial are at any temperature between 
¥9 degrees Celsius and + 43 degrees 
Celsius. 
[41 FR 36494, Aug. 30, 1976, as amended at 42 
FR 34289, July 5, 1977; 45 FR 22046, Apr. 3, 
1980; 60 FR 13647, Mar. 14, 1995; 87 FR 18597, 
Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.213
Child restraint systems; Ap-
plicable unless a vehicle or child re-
straint 
system 
is 
certified 
to 
§ 571.213b. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies re-
quirements for child restraint systems 
used in motor vehicles and aircraft. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce the number of 
children killed or injured in motor ve-
hicle crashes and in aircraft. 
S3. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars, multipurpose pas-
senger vehicles, trucks and buses, and 
to child restraint systems for use in 
motor vehicles and aircraft, manufac-
tured before December 5, 2026. FMVSS 
No. 213b applies to child restraint sys-
tems manufactured on or after Decem-
ber 5, 2026. 
S4. Definitions. 
Add-on child restraint system means 
any portable child restraint system. 
Backless child restraint system means a 
child restraint, other than a belt-posi-
tioning seat, that consists of a seating 
platform that does not extend up to 
provide a cushion for the child’s back 
or head and has a structural element 
designed to restrain forward motion of 
the child’s torso in a forward impact. 
Belt-positioning seat means a child re-
straint system that positions a child 
on a vehicle seat to improve the fit of 
a vehicle Type II belt system on the 
child and that lacks any component, 
such as a belt system or a structural 
element, designed to restrain forward 
movement of the child’s torso in a for-
ward impact. 
Booster seat means either a backless 
child restraint system or a belt-posi-
tioning seat. 
Built-in child restraint system means a 
child restraint system that is designed 
to be an integral part of and perma-
nently installed in a motor vehicle. 
Car bed means a child restraint sys-
tem designed to restrain or position a 
child in the supine or prone position on 
a continuous flat surface. 
Child restraint anchorage system is de-
fined in S3 of FMVSS No. 225 (§ 571.225). 
Child restraint system means any de-
vice, except Type I or Type II seat 
belts, designed for use in a motor vehi-
cle or aircraft to restrain, seat, or posi-
tion children who weigh 36 kilograms 
(kg) (80 lb) or less. 
Contactable surface means any child 
restraint system surface (other than 
that of a belt, belt buckle, or belt ad-
justment hardware) that may contact 
any part of the head or torso of the ap-
propriate test dummy, specified in S7, 
when a child restraint system is tested 
in accordance with S6.1. 
Factory-installed built-in child restraint 
system means a built-in child restraint 
system that has been or will be perma-
nently installed in a motor vehicle be-
fore that vehicle is certified as a com-
pleted or altered vehicle in accordance 
with part 567 of this chapter. 
Harness means a combination pelvic 
and upper torso child restraint system 
that consists primarily of flexible ma-
terial, such as straps, webbing or simi-
lar material, and that does not include 
a rigid seating structure for the child. 


## Page 2

931 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
Rear-facing 
child 
restraint 
system 
means a child restraint system, except 
a car bed, that positions a child to face 
in the direction opposite to the normal 
direction of travel of the motor vehi-
cle. 
Representative aircraft passenger seat 
means either a Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration approved production air-
craft passenger seat or a simulated air-
craft passenger seat conforming to Fig-
ure 6. 
School bus child restraint system means 
an add-on child restraint system (in-
cluding a harness) manufactured and 
sold only for use on school bus seats, 
that has a label conforming with 
S5.3.1(b). (This definition applies to 
child restraint systems manufactured 
on or after December 5, 2024.) 
Seat orientation reference line or SORL 
means the horizontal line through 
Point Z as illustrated in Figure 1A. 
Specific vehicle shell means the actual 
vehicle model part into which the 
built-in child restraint system is or is 
intended to be fabricated, including the 
complete surroundings of the built-in 
system. If the built-in child restraint 
system is or is intended to be fab-
ricated as part of any seat other than a 
front seat, these surroundings include 
the back of the seat in front, the inte-
rior rear side door panels and trim, the 
floor pan, adjacent pillars (e.g., the B 
and C pillars), and the ceiling. If the 
built-in system is or is intended to be 
fabricated as part of the front seat, 
these surroundings include the dash-
board, the steering mechanism and its 
associated trim hardware, any levers 
and knobs installed on the floor or on 
a console, the interior front side door 
panels and trim, the front seat, the 
floor pan, the A pillars and the ceiling. 
Tether anchorage is defined in S3 of 
FMVSS No. 225 (§ 571.225). 
Tether strap is defined in S3 of 
FMVSS No. 225 (§ 571.225). 
Tether hook is defined in S3 of 
FMVSS No. 225 (§ 571.225). 
Torso means the portion of the body 
of 
a 
seated 
anthropomorphic 
test 
dummy, excluding the thighs, that lies 
between the top of the child restraint 
system seating surface and the top of 
the shoulders of the test dummy. 
S5. Requirements. (a) Each motor ve-
hicle with a built-in child restraint 
system shall meet the requirements in 
this section when, as specified, tested 
in accordance with S6.1 and this para-
graph. 
(b) Each child restraint system man-
ufactured for use in motor vehicles 
shall meet the requirements in this 
section when, as specified, tested in ac-
cordance with S6.1 and this paragraph. 
Each add-on system shall meet the re-
quirements at each of the restraint’s 
seat back angle adjustment positions 
and restraint belt routing positions, 
when the restraint is oriented in the 
direction recommended by the manu-
facturer (e.g., forward, rearward or lat-
erally) pursuant to S5.6, and tested 
with the test dummy specified in S7. 
(c) Each child restraint system man-
ufactured for use in aircraft shall meet 
the requirements in this section and 
the additional requirements in S8. 
(d) Each child restraint tested with a 
Part 572 Subpart S dummy need not 
meet S5.1.2 and S5.1.3. 
(e) Each child restraint system tested 
with a part 572 subpart T dummy need 
not meet S5.1.2.1(a). 
(f) Each child restraint system that 
is equipped with an internal harness or 
other internal components to restrain 
the child need not meet this standard 
when attached to the lower anchors of 
the child restraint anchorage system 
on the standard seat assembly if the 
sum of the weight of the child restraint 
system (in pounds) and the average 
weight of child represented by the test 
dummy used to test the child restraint 
in accordance with S7 of this standard, 
shown in the table below, exceeds 65 
pounds. Such a child restraint must 
meet this standard when tested using 
its internal harness or components to 
restrain such a test dummy while in-
stalled using the standard seat belt as-
sembly specified in S5.3.2 of this stand-
ard. 
TABLE TO S5(f)—AVERAGE WEIGHT OF CHILD 
REPRESENTED BY VARIOUS TEST DUMMIES 
Test dummy 
(specified in S7 of this standard) 
Average 
weight of child 
represented by 
test dummy 
(pounds) 
CRABI 12-month-old infant dummy (49 CFR 
Part 572, Subpart R) ..................................
22 
Hybrid III 3-year-old dummy ..........................
(49 CFR Part 572, Subpart P) ......................
31 


## Page 3

932 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
TABLE TO S5(f)—AVERAGE WEIGHT OF CHILD 
REPRESENTED BY VARIOUS TEST DUMMIES— 
Continued 
Test dummy 
(specified in S7 of this standard) 
Average 
weight of child 
represented by 
test dummy 
(pounds) 
Hybrid III 6-year-old dummy 49 CFR Part 
572, Subpart N) .........................................
45 
Hybrid III 6-year-old weighted child test 
dummy (49 CFR Part 572 Subpart S) .......
62 
Hybrid II 6-year-old dummy (49, CFR Part 
572, Subpart I) ...........................................
45 
(g) Each add-on child restraint sys-
tem manufactured for use in motor ve-
hicles, that is recommended for chil-
dren in a weight range that includes 
weights up to 18 kilograms (40 pounds), 
or for children in a height range that 
includes heights up to 1100 millimeters, 
shall meet the requirements in this 
standard and the additional side im-
pact protection requirements in Stand-
ard No. 213a (§ 571.213a). Excepted from 
Standard No. 213a are harnesses and 
car beds. 
S5.1 Dynamic performance. 
S5.1.1
Child restraint system integrity. 
When tested in accordance with S6.1, 
each child restraint system shall meet 
the requirements of paragraphs (a) 
through (c) of this section. 
(a) Exhibit no complete separation of 
any load bearing structural element 
and no partial separation exposing ei-
ther surfaces with a radius of less than 
1⁄4 inch or surfaces with protrusions 
greater than 3⁄8 inch above the imme-
diate adjacent surrounding contactable 
surface of any structural element of 
the system. 
(b)(1) If adjustable to different posi-
tions, remain in the same adjustment 
position during the testing that it was 
in immediately before the testing, ex-
cept as otherwise specified in para-
graph (b)(2). 
(2)(i) Subject to paragraph (b)(2)(ii), a 
rear-facing child restraint system may 
have a means for repositioning the 
seating surface of the system that al-
lows the system’s occupant to move 
from a reclined position to an upright 
position and back to a reclined position 
during testing. 
(ii) No opening that is exposed and is 
larger than 1⁄4 inch before the testing 
shall become smaller during the test-
ing as a result of the movement of the 
seating surface relative to the re-
straint system as a whole. 
(c) If a front facing child restraint 
system, not allow the angle between 
the system’s back support surfaces for 
the child and the system’s seating sur-
face to be less than 45 degrees at the 
completion of the test. 
S5.1.2
Injury criteria. When tested in 
accordance with S6.1 and with the test 
dummies specified in S7, each child re-
straint system manufactured before 
August 1, 2005, that, in accordance with 
S5.5.2, is recommended for use by chil-
dren whose mass is more than 10 kg 
shall— 
(a) Limit the resultant acceleration 
at the location of the accelerometer 
mounted in the test dummy head as 
specified in part 572 such that the ex-
pression: 
            
1
2
1
2 5
2
1
1
2
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
−
(
)
⎡
⎣
⎢
⎢
⎤
⎦
⎥
⎥
−
(
)
∫
.
shall not exceed 1,000, where a is the re-
sultant acceleration expressed as a 
multiple of g (the acceleration of grav-
ity), and t1 and t2 are any two moments 
during the impacts. 
(b) Limit the resultant acceleration 
at the location of the accelerometer 
mounted in the test dummy upper tho-
rax as specified in part 572 to not more 
than 60 g’s, except for intervals whose 
cumulative duration is not more than 3 
milliseconds. 
S5.1.2.1
When tested in accordance 
with S6.1 and with the test dummies 
specified in S7, each child restraint 
system manufactured on or after Au-
gust 1, 2005 shall’ 
(a) Limit the resultant acceleration 
at the location of the accelerometer 
mounted in the test dummy head such 
that, for any two points in time, t1 and 
t2, during the event which are sepa-
rated by not more than a 36 milli-
second time interval and where t1 is 
less than t2, the maximum calculated 
head injury criterion (HIC36) shall not 
exceed 1,000, determined using the re-
sultant head acceleration at the center 
of gravity of the dummy head, ar, ex-
pressed as a multiple of g (the accelera-
tion of gravity), calculated using the 
expression: 


## Page 4

933 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
HIC =
1
t
t
adt
t
2
1
1
−
(
)
⎡
⎣
⎢
⎢
⎤
⎦
⎥
⎥
−
(
)
∫
t
t
t
1
2
2 5
2
.
(b) The resultant acceleration cal-
culated from the output of the thoracic 
instrumentation shall not exceed 60 
g’s, except for intervals whose cumu-
lative duration is not more than 3 mil-
liseconds. 
S5.1.2.2
At the manufacturer’s op-
tion (with said option irrevocably se-
lected prior to, or at the time of, cer-
tification of the restraint), child re-
straint systems manufactured before 
August 1, 2005 may be tested to the re-
quirements of S5 while using the test 
dummies specified in S7.1.2 of this 
standard according to the criteria for 
selecting test dummies specified in 
that paragraph. That paragraph speci-
fies the dummies used to test child re-
straint systems manufactured on or 
after August 1, 2005. If a manufacturer 
selects the dummies specified in S7.1.2 
to test its product, the injury criteria 
specified by S5.1.2.1 of this standard 
must be met. Child restraints manufac-
tured on or after August 1, 2005 must be 
tested using the test dummies specified 
in S7.1.2. 
S5.1.3
Occupant 
excursion. 
When 
tested in accordance with S6.1 and the 
requirements specified in this section, 
each child restraint system shall meet 
the applicable excursion limit require-
ments specified in S5.1.3.1–S5.1.3.3. 
S5.1.3.1
Child restraint systems other 
than rear-facing ones and car beds. Each 
child restraint system, other than a 
rear-facing child restraint system or a 
car bed, shall retain the test dummy’s 
torso within the system. 
(a) For each add-on child restraint 
system: 
(1) No portion of the test dummy’s 
head shall pass through a vertical 
transverse plane that is 720 mm or 813 
mm (as specified in the table in this 
S5.1.3.1) forward of point Z on the 
standard 
seat 
assembly, 
measured 
along the center SORL (as illustrated 
in figure 1B of this standard); and 
(2) Neither knee pivot point shall 
pass through a vertical transverse 
plane that is 915 mm forward of point Z 
on the standard seat assembly, meas-
ured along the center SORL. 
TABLE 1 TO S5.1.3.1(a)—ADD-ON CHILD RESTRAINTS THAT CAN BE USED FORWARD-FACING 
MANUFACTURED BEFORE DECEMBER 5, 2024 
When this type of child restraint 
Is tested in accord-
ance with— 
These excursion 
limits apply 
Explanatory note: in the test specified in 
2nd column, the child restraint is at-
tached to the test seat assembly in the 
manner described below, subject to cer-
tain conditions 
Harnesses and restraints designed for 
use by children with physical disabil-
ities.
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A) ....
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with lap belt; in addition, if a 
tether is provided, it is attached. 
Harnesses labeled per S5.3.1(b)(i) 
through S5.3.1(b)(iii) and Figure 12.
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A) ....
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with seat back mount. 
Belt-positioning seats ...............................
S6.1.2(a)(1)(ii) ........
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with lap and shoulder belt; no 
tether is attached. 
All other child restraints (i.e., other than 
harnesses, restraints designed for use 
by children with physical disabilities, 
harnesses manufactured exclusively 
for school buses, and belt-positioning 
seats).
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(B) ....
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with a lap belt, without a teth-
er attached; and, 
Attached to lower anchorages of a child 
restraint anchorage system; no tether 
is attached. 
All other child restraints (i.e., other than 
harnesses, restraints designed for use 
by children with physical disabilities, 
harnesses labeled per S5.3.1(b)(i) 
through S5.3.1(b)(iii) and Figure 12, 
and belt-positioning seats).
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A), 
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(C).
Head 720 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with a lap belt, with a tether 
attached; and, 
Attached to lower anchorages of child 
restraint anchorage system, with a 
tether attached. 


## Page 5

934 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
TABLE 2 TO S5.1.3.1(a)—ADD-ON CHILD RESTRAINTS THAT CAN BE USED FORWARD-FACING 
MANUFACTURED ON OR AFTER DECEMBER 5, 2024 
When this type of child restraint 
Is tested in accordance 
with— 
These excursion 
limits apply 
Explanatory note: in the test speci-
fied in 2nd column, the excursion re-
quirement must be met when the 
child restraint system is attached to 
the test seat assembly in the manner 
described below, subject to certain 
conditions 
Harnesses and restraints designed 
for use by children with physical 
disabilities.
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A) ................
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with lap and shoulder belt; 
in addition, if a tether is provided, 
it is attached. 
School bus child restraint systems ....
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A) ................
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with seat back mount, or, 
seat back, and, seat pan mounts. 
Booster seats .....................................
S6.1.2(a)(1)(ii) ....................
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with lap and shoulder belt; 
no tether is attached. 
Child restraints other than harnesses, 
restraints designed for use by chil-
dren with physical disabilities, 
school bus child restraint systems, 
and booster seats.
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(B) ................
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with a lap belt; without a 
tether attached. 
Attached to lower anchorages of 
child restraint anchorage system; 
with no tether attached. 
Child restraints other than harnesses, 
restraints designed for use by chil-
dren with physical disabilities, and 
school bus child restraint systems.
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A), 
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(C).
Head 720 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with a lap belt, with a tether 
attached. 
Attached to lower anchorages of 
child restraint anchorage system, 
with a tether attached. 
Child restraints equipped with a fixed 
or movable surface described in 
S5.2.2.2 that has belts that are not 
an integral part of that fixed or 
movable surface.
S6.1.2(a)(2) ........................
Head 813 mm; 
Knee 915 mm.
Attached with lap belt, no tether is 
attached. 
(b) In the case of a built-in child re-
straint system, neither knee pivot 
point shall, at any time during the dy-
namic test, pass through a vertical 
transverse plane that is 305 mm for-
ward of the initial pre-test position of 
the respective knee pivot point, meas-
ured along a horizontal line that passes 
through the knee pivot point and is 
parallel to the vertical longitudinal 
plane that passes through the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline. 
S5.1.3.2
Rear-facing 
child 
restraint 
systems. In the case of each rear-facing 
child restraint system, all portions of 
the test dummy’s torso shall be re-
tained within the system and neither 
of the target points on either side of 
the dummy’s head and on the trans-
verse axis passing through the center 
of mass of the dummy’s head and per-
pendicular to the head’s midsagittal 
plane, shall pass through the trans-
verse orthogonal planes whose inter-
section contains the forward-most and 
top-most points on the child restraint 
system surfaces (illustrated in Figure 
1C). 
S5.1.3.3 Car beds. In the case of car 
beds, all portions of the test dummy’s 
head and torso shall be retained within 
the confines of the car bed. 
S5.1.4 Back support angle. When a 
rear-facing child restraint system is 
tested in accordance with S6.1, the 
angle between the system’s back sup-
port surface for the child and the 
vertical shall not exceed 70 degrees. 
S5.2 Force distribution. 
S5.2.1 Minimum head support surface— 
child restraints other than car beds. 
S5.2.1.1 Except as provided in S5.2.1.2, 
each child restraint system other than 
a 
car 
bed 
shall 
provide 
restraint 
against rearward movement of the 
head of the child (rearward in relation 
to the child) by means of a continuous 
seat back which is an integral part of 
the system and which— 
(a) Has a height, measured along the 
system seat back surface for the child 
in the vertical longitudinal plane pass-
ing through the longitudinal centerline 
of the child restraint systems from the 
lowest point on the system seating sur-
face that is contacted by the buttocks 
of the seated dummy, as follows: 


## Page 6

935 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
TABLE TO S5.2.1.1(a) 
Weight 1 
Height 2 
(mm) 
Not more than 18 kg .............................................
500 
More than 18 kg ....................................................
560 
1 When a child restraint system is recommended under S5.5 
for use by children of the above weights. 
2 The height of the portion of the system seat back pro-
viding head restraint shall not be less than the above. 
(b) Has a width of not less than 8 
inches, measured in the horizontal 
plane at the height specified in para-
graph (a) of this section. Except that a 
child restraint system with side sup-
ports extending at least 4 inches for-
ward from the padded surface of the 
portion of the restraint system pro-
vided for support of the child’s head 
may have a width of not less than 6 
inches, measured in the horizontal 
plane at the height specified in para-
graph (a) of this section. 
(c) Limits the rearward rotation of 
the test dummy head so that the angle 
between the head and torso of the 
dummy specified in S7. when tested in 
accordance with S6.1 is not more than 
45 degrees greater than the angle be-
tween the head and torso after the 
dummy has been placed in the system 
in accordance with S6.1.2.3 and before 
the system is tested in accordance with 
S6.1. 
S5.2.1.2
The applicability of the re-
quirements of S5.2.1.1 to a front-facing 
child restraint, and the conformance of 
any child restraint other than a car 
bed to those requirements, is deter-
mined using the largest of the test 
dummies specified in S7 for use in test-
ing that restraint, provided that the 6- 
year-old dummy described in subpart I 
or subpart N of part 572 of this title and 
the 10-year-old dummy described in 
subpart T of part 572 of this title, are 
not used to determine the applicability 
of or compliance with S5.2.1.1. A front 
facing child restraint system is not re-
quired to comply with S5.2.1.1 if the 
target point on either side of the dum-
my’s head is below a horizontal plane 
tangent to the top of— 
(a) The standard seat assembly, in 
the case of an add-on child restraint 
system, when the dummy is positioned 
in the system and the system is in-
stalled on the assembly in accordance 
with S6.1.2. 
(b) The vehicle seat, in the case of a 
built-in child restraint system, when 
the system is activated and the dummy 
is positioned in the system in accord-
ance with S6.1.2. 
S5.2.2 Torso impact protection. Each 
child restraint system other than a car 
bed shall comply with the applicable 
requirements of S5.2.2.1 and S5.2.2.2. 
S5.2.2.1(a) The system surface pro-
vided for the support of the child’s 
back shall be flat or concave and have 
a continuous surface area of not less 
than 85 square inches. 
(b) Each system surface provided for 
support of the side of the child’s torso 
shall be flat or concave and have a con-
tinuous surface of not less than 24 
square 
inches 
for 
systems 
rec-
ommended for children weighing 20 
pounds or more, or 48 square inches for 
systems 
recommended 
for 
children 
weighing less than 20 pounds. 
(c) Each horizontal cross section of 
each system surface designed to re-
strain forward movement of the child’s 
torso shall be flat or concave and each 
vertical 
longitudinal 
cross 
section 
shall be flat or convex with a radius of 
curvature of the underlying structure 
of not less than 2 inches. 
S5.2.2.2
Each 
forward-facing 
child 
restraint system shall have no fixed or 
movable surface— 
(a) Directly forward of the dummy 
and intersected by a horizontal line— 
(1) Parallel to the SORL, in the case 
of the add-on child restraint system, or 
(2) 
Parallel 
to 
a 
vertical 
plane 
through the longitudinal center line of 
the vehicle seat, in the case of a built- 
in child restraint system, and, 
(b) Passing through any portion of 
the dummy, except for surfaces which 
restrain the dummy when the system 
is 
tested 
in 
accordance 
with 
S6.1.2(a)(2), so that the child restraint 
system shall conform to the require-
ments of S5.1.2 and S5.1.3.1. 
S5.2.3 [Reserved] 
S5.2.4 Protrusion limitation. Any por-
tion of a rigid structural component 
within or underlying a contactable sur-
face, or any portion of a child restraint 
system surface that is subject to the 
requirements of S5.2.3 shall, with any 
padding or other flexible overlay mate-
rial removed, have a height above any 
immediately adjacent restraint system 


## Page 7

936 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
surface of not more than 3⁄8 inch and no 
exposed edge with a radius of less than 
1⁄4 inch. 
S5.3 Installation. 
S5.3.1
Add-on child restraints shall 
meet either (a) or (b), as appropriate. 
(a) Except for components designed 
to attach to a child restraint anchor-
age system, each add-on child restraint 
system must not have any means de-
signed for attaching the system to a 
vehicle seat cushion or vehicle seat 
back and any component (except belts) 
that is designed to be inserted between 
the vehicle seat cushion and vehicle 
seat back. 
(b) School bus child restraint sys-
tems (including harnesses manufac-
tured for use on school bus seats) must 
have a label that conforms in content 
to Figure 12 and to the requirements of 
S5.3.1(b)(1) through S5.3.1(b)(3) of this 
standard. The label must be perma-
nently affixed to the part of the school 
bus child restraint system, that at-
taches the system to a vehicle seat 
back. 
(1) The label must be plainly visible 
when installed and easily readable. 
(2) The message area must be white 
with black text. The message area 
must be no less than 20 square centi-
meters. 
(3) The pictogram shall be gray and 
black with a red circle and slash on a 
white background. The pictogram shall 
be no less than 20 mm in diameter. 
(c) The provision that add-on child 
restraint systems shall meet the re-
quirements of this standard when in-
stalled solely by a Type 1 belt applies 
to child restraint systems manufac-
tured before September 1, 2029. Except 
for harnesses, the requirement sunsets 
for child restraint systems manufac-
tured on or after September 1, 2029. For 
harnesses, the requirement does not 
sunset and continues to apply to har-
nesses manufactured on or after Sep-
tember 1, 2029. 
S5.3.2
Each add-on child restraint 
system shall be capable of meeting the 
requirements of this standard when in-
stalled solely by each of the means in-
dicated in the following table for the 
particular type of child restraint sys-
tem: 
TABLE TO S5.3.2 
Type of add-on child restraint system 
Means of installation 
Type 1 
seat belt 
assem-
bly 
Type 1 
seat belt 
assem-
bly plus 
a tether 
anchor-
age, if 
needed 
Child re-
straint 
anchor-
age sys-
tem (ef-
fective 
Sep-
tember 1, 
2002) 
Type II 
seat belt 
assem-
bly 
Seat 
back 
mount 
Harnesses labeled per S5.3.1(b)(1) through S5.3.1(b)(3) and Figure 12
X 
Other harnesses .........................................................................................
X 
Car beds .....................................................................................................
X 
Rear-facing restraints .................................................................................
X 
X 
Belt-positioning seats .................................................................................
X 
All other child restraints ..............................................................................
X 
X 
X 
S5.3.2.1
School bus child restraint 
systems manufactured on or after De-
cember 5, 2024, shall be capable of 
meeting 
the 
requirements 
of 
this 
standard when installed by seat back 
mount, or, seat back mount and seat 
pan mount. 
S5.3.3 Car beds. Each car bed shall be 
designed to be installed on a vehicle 
seat so that the car bed’s longitudinal 
axis is perpendicular to a vertical lon-
gitudinal plane through the longitu-
dinal axis of the vehicle. 
S5.4 Belts, belt buckles, and belt web-
bing. 
S5.4.1
Performance requirements. 
S5.4.1.1
Child restraint systems manu-
factured before September 1, 2007. The 
webbing of belts provided with a child 
restraint system and used to attach 
the system to the vehicle or to restrain 
the child within the system shall— 


## Page 8

937 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
(a) After being subjected to abrasion 
as specified in S5.1(d) or S5.3(c) of 
FMVSS 209 (§ 571.209), have a breaking 
strength of not less than 75 percent of 
the strength of the unabraded webbing 
when tested in accordance with S5.1(b) 
of FMVSS 209. A mass of 2.35 ±.05 kg 
shall be used in the test procedure in 
S5.1(d) of FMVSS 209 for webbing, in-
cluding webbing used to secure a child 
restraint system to the tether and 
lower anchorages of a child restraint 
anchorage system, except that a mass 
of 1.5 ±.05 kg shall be used for webbing 
in pelvic and upper torso restraints of 
a belt assembly used in a child re-
straint system. The mass is shown as 
(B) in Figure 2 of FMVSS 209. 
(b) Meet the requirements of S4.2 (e) 
and (f) of FMVSS No. 209 (§ 571.209); and 
(c) If contactable by the test dummy 
torso when the system is tested in ac-
cordance with S6.1, have a width of not 
less than 11⁄2 inches when measured in 
accordance with S5.4.1.3. 
S5.4.1.2
Child restraint systems manu-
factured on or after September 1, 2007. 
The webbing of belts provided with a 
child restraint system and used to at-
tach the system to the vehicle or to re-
strain the child within the system 
shall— 
(a) 
Have 
a 
minimum 
breaking 
strength for new webbing of not less 
than 15,000 N in the case of webbing 
used to secure a child restraint system 
to the vehicle, including the tether and 
lower anchorages of a child restraint 
anchorage system, and not less than 
11,000 N in the case of the webbing used 
to secure a child to a child restraint 
system when tested in accordance with 
S5.1 of FMVSS No. 209. Each value 
shall be not less than the 15,000 N and 
11,000 N applicable breaking strength 
requirements, but the median value 
shall be used for determining the reten-
tion of breaking strength in paragraphs 
(b)(1), (c)(1), and (c)(2) of this section 
S5.4.1.2.
‘‘New webbing’’ means web-
bing that has not been exposed to abra-
sion, light or micro-organisms as speci-
fied elsewhere in this section. 
(b)(1) After being subjected to abra-
sion as specified in S5.1(d) or S5.3(c) of 
FMVSS 209 (§ 571.209), have a breaking 
strength of not less than 75 percent of 
the new webbing strength, when tested 
in accordance with S5.1(b) of FMVSS 
209. 
(2) A mass of 2.35 ±.05 kg shall be used 
in the test procedure in S5.1(d) of 
FMVSS 209 for webbing, including web-
bing to secure a child restraint system 
to the tether and lower anchorages of a 
child restraint anchorage system, ex-
cept that a mass of 1.5 ±.05 kg shall be 
used for webbing in pelvic and upper 
torso restraints of a belt assembly used 
in a child restraint system. The mass is 
shown as (B) in Figure 2 of FMVSS 209. 
(c)(1) After exposure to the light of a 
carbon arc and tested by the procedure 
specified in S5.1(e) of FMVSS 209 
(§ 571.209), have a breaking strength of 
not less than 60 percent of the new web-
bing, and shall have a color retention 
not less than No. 2 on the AATCC Gray 
Scale for Evaluating Change in Color 
(incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). 
(2) After being subjected to micro-or-
ganisms and tested by the procedures 
specified in S5.1(f) of FMVSS 209 
(§ 571.209), 
shall 
have 
a 
breaking 
strength not less than 85 percent of the 
new webbing. 
(d) If contactable by the test dummy 
torso when the system is tested in ac-
cordance with S6.1, have a width of not 
less than 11⁄2 inches when measured in 
accordance with S5.4.1.3. 
S5.4.1.3
Width test procedure. Condi-
tion the webbing for 24 hours in an at-
mosphere of any relative humidity be-
tween 48 and 67 percent, and any ambi-
ent temperature between 70° and 77 °F. 
Measure belt webbing width under a 
tension of 5 pounds applied lengthwise. 
S5.4.2
Belt buckles and belt adjust-
ment hardware. Each belt buckle and 
item of belt adjustment hardware used 
in a child restraint system shall con-
form to the requirements of S4.3(a) and 
S4.3(b) of FMVSS No. 209 (§ 571.209). 
S5.4.3
Belt Restraint. 
S5.4.3.1
General. Each belt that is 
part of a child restraint system and 
that is designed to restrain a child 
using the system shall be adjustable to 
snugly fit any child whose height and 
weight are within the ranges rec-
ommended in accordance with S5.5.2(f) 
and who is positioned in the system in 
accordance with the instructions re-
quired by S5.6. 
S5.4.3.2
Direct restraint. Except for 
belt-positioning seats, each belt that is 


## Page 9

938 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
part of a child restraint system and 
that is designed to restrain a child 
using the system and to attach the sys-
tem to the vehicle, and each Type I and 
lap portion of a Type II vehicle belt 
that is used to attach the system to 
the vehicle shall, when tested in ac-
cordance with S6.1, impose no loads on 
the child that result from the mass of 
the system, or— 
(a) In the case of an add-on child re-
straint system, from the mass of the 
seat back of the standard seat assem-
bly specified in S6.1, or 
(b) In the case of a built-in child re-
straint system, from the mass of any 
part of the vehicle into which the child 
restraint system is built. 
S5.4.3.3
Seating systems. Except for 
child restraint systems subject to 
S5.4.3.4, each child restraint system 
that is designed for use by a child in a 
seated position and that has belts de-
signed to restrain the child, shall, with 
the test dummy specified in S7 posi-
tioned in the system in accordance 
with S10 provide: 
(a) Upper torso restraint in the form 
of: 
(i) Belts passing over each shoulder 
of the child, or 
(ii) A fixed or movable surface that 
complies with S5.2.2.1(c), and 
(b) Lower torso restraint in the form 
of: 
(i) A lap belt assembly making an 
angle between 45° and 90° with the child 
restraint seating surface at the lap belt 
attachment points, or 
(ii) A fixed or movable surface that 
complies with S5.2.2.1(c), and 
(c) In the case of each seating system 
recommended 
for 
children 
whose 
masses are more than 10 kg, crotch re-
straint in the form of: 
(i) A crotch belt connectable to the 
lap belt or other device used to restrain 
the lower torso, or 
(ii) A fixed or movable surface that 
complies with S5.2.2.1(c). 
S5.4.3.4
Harnesses. Each child har-
ness shall: 
(a) Provide upper torso restraint, in-
cluding belts passing over each shoul-
der of the child; 
(b) Provide lower torso restraint by 
means of lap and crotch belt; and 
(c) Prevent a child of any height for 
which the restraint is recommended for 
use pursuant to S5.5.2(f) from standing 
upright on the vehicle seat when the 
child is placed in the device in accord-
ance with the instructions required by 
S5.6. 
S5.4.3.5 Buckle release. Any buckle in 
a child restraint system belt assembly 
designed to restrain a child using the 
system shall: 
(a) When tested in accordance with 
S6.2.1 prior to the dynamic test of S6.1, 
not release when a force of less than 40 
newtons (N) is applied and shall release 
when a force of not more than 62 N is 
applied; 
(b) After the dynamic test of S6.1, 
when tested in accordance with the ap-
propriate sections of S6.2, release when 
a force of not more than 71 N is ap-
plied, provided, however, that the con-
formance of any child restraint to this 
requirement is determined using the 
largest of the test dummies specified in 
S7 for use in testing that restraint 
when the restraint is facing forward, 
rearward, and/or laterally; 
(c) 
Meet 
the 
requirements 
of 
S4.3(d)(2) of FMVSS No. 209 (§ 571.209), 
except that the minimum surface area 
for child restraint buckles designed for 
push button application shall be 0.6 
square inch; 
(d) Meet the requirements of S4.3(g) 
of FMVSS No. 209 (§ 571.209) when test-
ed 
in 
accordance 
with 
S5.2(g) 
of 
FMVSS No. 209; and 
(e) Not release during the testing 
specified in S6.1. 
S5.5
Labeling. Any labels or written 
instructions provided in addition to 
those required by this section shall not 
obscure or confuse the meaning of the 
required information or be otherwise 
misleading to the consumer. Any labels 
or written instructions other than in 
the English language shall be an accu-
rate translation of English labels or 
written instructions. 
S5.5.1
Each add-on child restraint 
system shall be permanently labeled 
with the information specified in S5.5.2 
(a) through (m). 
S5.5.2
The information specified in 
paragraphs (a) through (m) of this sec-
tion shall be stated in the English lan-
guage and lettered in letters and num-
bers that are not smaller than 10 point 
type. Unless otherwise specified, the 
information shall be labeled on a white 


## Page 10

939 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
background with black text. Unless 
written in all capitals, the information 
shall be stated in sentence capitaliza-
tion. 
(a) The model name or number of the 
system. 
(b) The manufacturer’s name. A dis-
tributor’s name may be used instead if 
the distributor assumes responsibility 
for all duties and liabilities imposed on 
the manufacturer with respect to the 
system by the National Traffic and 
Motor Vehicle Safety Act, as amended. 
(c) The statement: ‘‘Manufactured in 
____,’’ inserting the month and year of 
manufacture. 
(d) The place of manufacture (city 
and State, or foreign country). How-
ever, if the manufacturer uses the 
name of the distributor, then it shall 
state the location (city and State, or 
foreign country) of the principal offices 
of the distributor. 
(e) The statement: ‘‘This child re-
straint system conforms to all applica-
ble Federal motor vehicle safety stand-
ards.’’ 
(f) For child restraint systems manu-
factured before December 5, 2024, para-
graph (f)(1) of this section applies. For 
child restraint systems manufactured 
on or after December 5, 2024, paragraph 
(f)(2) of this section applies. 
(1) One of the following statements, 
as appropriate, inserting the manufac-
turer’s recommendations for the max-
imum mass of children who can safely 
occupy the system, except that booster 
seats shall not be recommended for 
children whose masses are less than 
13.6 kg. For child restraint systems 
that can only be used as belt-posi-
tioning seats, manufacturers must in-
clude the maximum and minimum rec-
ommended height, but may delete the 
reference to weight: 
(i) Use only with children who weigh 
ll pounds (ll kg) or less and whose 
height is (insert values in English and 
metric units; use of word ‘‘mass’’ in label 
is optional) or less; or 
(ii) Use only with children who weigh 
between ll and ll pounds (insert ap-
propriate English and metric values; use 
of word ‘‘mass’’ is optional) and whose 
height is (insert appropriate values in 
English and metric units) or less and who 
are capable of sitting upright alone; or 
(iii) Use only with children who 
weigh between ll and ll pounds 
(insert appropriate English and metric 
values; use of word ‘‘mass’’ is optional) 
and whose height is (insert appropriate 
values in English and metric units) or 
less. 
(iv) Use only with children who weigh 
between ll and ll pounds (insert ap-
propriate English and metric values; use 
of word ‘‘mass’’ is optional) and whose 
height is between ll and ll (insert 
appropriate values in English and metric 
units). 
(2) For child restraint systems manu-
factured on or after December 5, 2024: 
Statements or a combination of state-
ments and pictograms specifying the 
manufacturer’s recommendations for 
the mass and height ranges (in English 
and metric units) of children who can 
safely occupy the system in each appli-
cable mode (rear-facing, forward-fac-
ing, booster), except manufacturers 
shall not recommend forward-facing 
use for child restraint systems with in-
ternal harnesses for children of masses 
less than 12 kg (26.5 lb), and shall not 
recommend booster seats for children 
of masses less than 18.4 kg (40 lb). 
(g) The statements specified in para-
graphs (1) and (2): 
(1) 
A 
heading 
as 
specified 
in 
S5.5.2(k)(3)(i), 
with 
the 
statement 
‘‘WARNING! DEATH or SERIOUS IN-
JURY can occur,’’ capitalized as writ-
ten and followed by bulleted state-
ments in the following order: 
(i) As appropriate, the statements re-
quired by the following sections will be 
bulleted and placed after the statement 
required by 5.5.2(g)(1) in the following 
order: 5.5.2(k)(1), 5.5.2(h), 5.5.2(j), and 
5.5.2(i). For child restraint systems 
manufactured on or after December 5, 
2024, the statements required by 5.5.2(f) 
and 5.5.2(k)(2) need not be included. 
(ii) Secure this child restraint with 
the vehicle’s child restraint anchorage 
system, if available, or with a vehicle 
belt. [For car beds, harnesses, and belt 
positioning seats, the first part of the 
statement regarding attachment by 
the child restraint anchorage system is 
optional.] [For belt-positioning seats, 
the second part of the statement re-
garding attachment by the vehicle belt 
does not apply.] [For child restraints 
manufactured from February 27, 2014 to 


## Page 11

940 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
February 26, 2015, the following state-
ment applies.] Child restraint systems 
equipped with internal harnesses to re-
strain the child and with components 
to attach to a child restraint anchor-
age system and for which the combined 
weight of the child restraint system 
and the maximum recommended child 
weight for use with internal harnesses 
exceeds 65 pounds, must be labeled with 
the following statement: ‘‘Do not use 
the lower anchors of the child restraint 
anchorage system (LATCH system) to 
attach this child restraint when re-
straining a child weighing more than * 
[*insert a recommended weight value 
in English and metric units such that 
the sum of the recommended weight 
value and the weight of the child re-
straint system does not exceed 65 
pounds (29.5 kg)] with the internal har-
nesses of the child restraint.’’ 
(iii) Follow all instructions on this 
child restraint and in the written in-
structions located (insert storage loca-
tion on the restraint for the manufactur-
er’s installation instruction booklet or 
sheet). 
(iv) Register your child restraint 
with the manufacturer. 
(2) At the manufacturer’s option, the 
phrase ‘‘DEATH or SERIOUS INJURY 
can occur’’ in the heading can be on ei-
ther a white or yellow background. 
(3) More than one label may be used 
for the required bulleted statements. 
Multiple labels shall be placed one 
above the other unless that arrange-
ment is precluded by insufficient space 
or shape of the child restraint. In that 
case, multiple labels shall be placed 
side by side. When using multiple la-
bels, the mandated warnings must be 
in the correct order when read from top 
to bottom. If the labels are side-by- 
side, then the mandated warnings must 
appear top to bottom of the leftmost 
label, then top to bottom of the next 
label to its right, and so on. There 
shall be no intervening labels and the 
required heading shall only appear on 
the first label in the sequence. 
(h) In the case of each child restraint 
system that has belts designed to re-
strain children using them and which 
do not adjust automatically to fit the 
child: Snugly adjust the belts provided 
with this child restraint around your 
child. 
(i)(1) For a booster seat that is rec-
ommended for use with either a vehi-
cle’s Type I or Type II seat belt assem-
bly, one of the following statements, as 
appropriate: 
(i) Use only the vehicle’s lap and 
shoulder belt system when restraining 
the child in this booster seat; or, 
(ii) Use only the vehicle’s lap belt 
system, or the lap belt part of a lap/ 
shoulder belt system with the shoulder 
belt placed behind the child, when re-
straining the child in this seat. 
(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph 
(i)(2)(ii) of this section, for a booster 
seat which is recommended for use 
with both a vehicle’s Type I and Type 
II seat belt assemblies, the following 
statement: Use only the vehicle’s lap 
belt system, or the lap belt part of a 
lap/shoulder 
belt 
system 
with 
the 
shoulder belt placed behind the child, 
when restraining the child with the 
(insert description of the system element 
provided to restrain forward movement of 
the child’s torso when used with a lap belt 
(e.g., shield)), and only the vehicle’s lap 
and shoulder belt system when using 
the booster without the (insert above 
description). 
(ii) A booster seat which is rec-
ommended for use with both a vehicle’s 
Type I and Type II seat belt assemblies 
is not subject to S5.5.2(i)(2)(i) if, when 
the booster is used with the shield or 
similar component, the booster will 
cause the shoulder belt to be located in 
a position other than in front of the 
child when the booster is installed. 
However, such a booster shall be la-
beled with a warning to use the booster 
with the vehicle’s lap and shoulder belt 
system when using the booster without 
a shield. 
(j) In the case of each child restraint 
system equipped with a top anchorage 
strap, the statement: Secure the top 
anchorage strap provided with this 
child restraint. 
(k) (1) In the case of each rear-facing 
child restraint system that is designed 
for infants only, the statement: Use 
only in a rear-facing position when 
using it in the vehicle. 
(2) In the case of a child restraint 
system that is designed to be used rear-
ward-facing for infants and forward- 


## Page 12

941 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
facing for older children, the state-
ment: Use only in a rear-facing posi-
tion when using it with an infant 
weighing 
less 
than 
(insert 
a 
rec-
ommended weight that is not less than 20 
pounds). 
(3) Except as provided in (k)(4) of this 
section, each child restraint system 
that can be used in a rear-facing posi-
tion shall have a label that conforms in 
content to Figure 10 and to the require-
ments 
of 
S5.5.2(k)(3)(i) 
through 
S5.5.2(k)(3)(iii) of this standard perma-
nently affixed to the outer surface of 
the cushion or padding in or adjacent 
to the area where a child’s head would 
rest, so that the label is plainly visible 
and easily readable. 
(i) The heading area shall be yellow 
with the word ‘‘warning’’ and the alert 
symbol in black. 
(ii) The message area shall be white 
with black text. The message area 
shall be no less than 30 square cm. 
(iii) The pictogram shall be black 
with a red circle and slash on a white 
background. The pictogram shall be no 
less than 30 mm in diameter. 
(4) If a child restraint system is 
equipped with a device that deactivates 
the passenger-side air bag in a vehicle 
when and only when the child restraint 
is installed in the vehicle and provides 
a signal, for at least 60 seconds after 
deactivation, that the air bag is deacti-
vated, the label specified in Figure 10 
may include the phrase ‘‘unless air bag 
is off’’ after ‘‘on front seat with air 
bag.’’ 
(l) An installation diagram showing 
the child restraint system installed in: 
(1) A seating position equipped with a 
continuous-loop lap/shoulder belt; 
(2) [Reserved] 
(3) A seating position equipped with a 
child restraint anchorage system. For 
child restraint systems manufactured 
on or after February 27, 2015, the fol-
lowing paragraphs (l)(3)(i) and (ii) 
apply, as appropriate. 
(i) If the child restraint system is de-
signed to meet the requirements of this 
standard when installed by the child 
restraint anchorage system according 
to S5.3.2, and if the sum of the weight 
of the child restraint system and the 
maximum child weight recommended 
for the child restraint when used with 
the restraint’s internal harness or com-
ponents is greater than 65 lb when used 
forward-facing or rear-facing, include 
the following statement on this instal-
lation diagram: ‘‘Do not install by this 
method for a child weighing more than 
*.’’ At the manufacturer’s option, ‘‘*’’ 
is the child weight limit in English 
units 
in 
accordance 
with 
S5.5.2(l)(3)(i)(A), (B) or (C). The cor-
responding child weight limit in metric 
units may also be included in the state-
ment at the manufacturer’s option. 
(A) For forward-facing and rear-fac-
ing child restraints, * is less than or 
equal to 65 minus child restraint 
weight (pounds). 
(B) 
For 
forward-facing 
child 
re-
straints, * is the child weight limit 
specified in the following table cor-
responding to the value CW, calculated 
as 65 minus child restraint weight 
(pounds). 
TABLE TO S5.5.2(l)(3)(i)(B)—MAXIMUM CHILD 
WEIGHT LIMIT FOR LOWER ANCHOR USE FOR 
FORWARD-FACING
CHILD
RESTRAINT
SYS-
TEM—ROUNDING 
CW = 65—child restaint weight (pounds) 
Child weight 
limit ‘‘*’’ 
(pounds) 
20 < CW ≤ 25 ................................................
25 
25 < CW ≤ 30 ................................................
30 
30 < CW ≤ 35 ................................................
35 
35 < CW ≤ 40 ................................................
40 
40 < CW ≤ 45 ................................................
45 
45 < CW ≤ 50 ................................................
50 
50 < CW ≤ 55 ................................................
55 
55 < CW ≤ 60 ................................................
60 
(C) For rear-facing child restraints, * 
is the child weight limit specified in 
the following table corresponding to 
the value CW, calculated as 60 minus 
child restraint weight (pounds). 
TABLE TO S5.5.2(l)(3)(i)(C)—MAXIMUM CHILD 
WEIGHT LIMIT FOR LOWER ANCHOR USE FOR 
REAR-FACING
CHILD
RESTRAINT
SYSTEM— 
ROUNDING 
CW = 60—child restraint weight (pounds) 
Child weight 
limit ‘‘*’’ 
(pounds) 
15 < CW ≤ 20 ................................................
20 
20 < CW ≤ 25 ................................................
25 
25 < CW ≤ 30 ................................................
30 
30 < CW ≤ 35 ................................................
35 
35 < CW ≤ 40 ................................................
40 
40 < CW ≤ 45 ................................................
45 
45 < CW ≤ 50 ................................................
50 
50 < CW ≤ 55 ................................................
55 


## Page 13

942 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
(ii) For child restraints designed to 
meet the requirements of this standard 
when installed forward-facing and rear- 
facing by the child restraint anchorage 
system according to S5.3.2, the fol-
lowing applies: 
(A) If separate installation diagrams 
are provided for the child restraint in-
stalled forward-facing and rear-facing, 
S5.5.2(l)(3)(i) applies to each of the in-
stallation diagrams. 
(B) If only one installation diagram 
is provided and if a statement speci-
fying a child weight limit is required in 
only 
rear-facing 
or 
forward-facing 
mode pursuant to S5.5.2(l)(3)(i), then 
the diagram shall depict installation in 
that 
mode 
along 
with 
the 
cor-
responding child weight limit in ac-
cordance with S5.5.2(l)(3)(i). 
(C) If a statement specifying a child 
weight limit is required for the child 
restraint installed forward-facing and 
rear-facing pursuant to S5.5.2(l)(3)(i) 
and only one installation diagram is 
provided, then the child weight limit 
shall 
be 
in 
accordance 
with 
S5.5.2(l)(3)(i)(A) or the lesser of the 
child 
weight 
limits 
described 
in 
S5.5.2(l)(3)(i)(B) and (C). 
(m) One of the following statements, 
inserting an address and a U.S. tele-
phone number. If a manufacturer opts 
to provide a Web site on the registra-
tion card as permitted in Figure 9a of 
this section, the manufacturer must in-
clude the statement in part (ii): 
(i) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, e-mail ad-
dress if available (preceding four words 
are optional) and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert a U.S. tele-
phone number). For recall information, 
call the U.S. Government’s Vehicle 
Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
http:// 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(ii) ‘‘Child restraints could be re-
called for safety reasons. You must 
register this restraint to be reached in 
a recall. Send your name, address, e- 
mail address if available [preceding 
four words are optional], and the re-
straint’s model number and manufac-
turing date to (insert address) or call 
(insert a U.S. telephone number) or reg-
ister online at (insert Web site for elec-
tronic registration form). For recall in-
formation, call the U.S. Government’s 
Vehicle Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 
(TTY: 1–800–424–9153), or go to http:// 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(n) Child restraint systems, other 
than belt-positioning seats, harnesses 
and backless child restraint systems, 
may be certified as complying with the 
provisions of S8. Child restraints that 
are so certified shall be labeled with 
the statement ‘‘This Restraint is Cer-
tified for Use in Motor Vehicles and 
Aircraft.’’ Belt-positioning seats, har-
nesses and backless child restraint sys-
tems shall be labeled with the state-
ment ‘‘This Restraint is Not Certified 
for Use in Aircraft.’’ The statement re-
quired by this paragraph shall be in red 
lettering and shall be placed after the 
certification statement required by 
S5.5.2(e). 
S5.5.3
The information specified in 
S5.5.2(f) through (l) shall be located on 
the add-on child restraint system so 
that it is visible when the system is in-
stalled as specified in S5.6.1, except 
that for child restraints with a detach-
able base, the installation diagrams 
specified in S5.5.2(l) are required to be 
visible only when the base alone is in-
stalled. 
S5.5.4
(a) Each built-in child re-
straint system other than a factory-in-
stalled built-in restraint shall be per-
manently labeled with the information 
specified in S5.5.5 (a) through (l). The 
information 
specified 
in 
S5.5.5(a) 
through (j) and in S5.5.5(l) shall be visi-
ble when the system is activated for 
use. 
(b) Each factory-installed built-in 
child restraint shall be permanently la-
beled with the information specified in 
S5.5.5(f) through (j) and S5.5.5(l), so 
that the information is visible when 
the restraint is activated for use. The 
information shall also be included in 
the vehicle owner’s manual. 
S5.5.5
The information specified in 
paragraphs (a) through (l) of this sec-
tion that is required by S5.5.4 shall be 
in English and lettered in letters and 
numbers using a not smaller than 10 
point type. Unless specified otherwise, 
the information shall be labeled on a 


## Page 14

943 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
white background with black text. Un-
less written in all capitals, the infor-
mation shall be stated in sentence cap-
italization. 
(a) The model name or number of the 
system. 
(b) The manufacturer’s name. A dis-
tributor’s or dealer’s name may be used 
instead if the distributor or dealer as-
sumes responsibility for all duties and 
liabilities imposed on the manufac-
turer with respect to the system by the 
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle 
Safety Act, as amended. 
(c) The statement: ‘‘Manufactured in 
______,’’ inserting the month and year 
of manufacture. 
(d) The place of manufacture (city 
and State, or foreign country). How-
ever, if the manufacturer uses the 
name of the distributor or dealer, then 
it shall state the location (city and 
State, or foreign country) of the prin-
cipal offices of the distributor or deal-
er. 
(e) The statement: ‘‘This child re-
straint system conforms to all applica-
ble Federal motor vehicle safety stand-
ards.’’ 
(f) One of the following statements, 
inserting 
the 
manufacturer’s 
rec-
ommendations for the maximum mass 
of children who can safely occupy the 
system, except that booster seats shall 
not be recommended for children whose 
masses are less than 13.6 kg. For seats 
that can only be used as belt-posi-
tioning seats, manufacturers must in-
clude the maximum and minimum rec-
ommended height, but may delete the 
reference to weight: 
(1) Use only with children who weigh 
____ pounds (____ kg) or less and whose 
height is (insert values in English and 
metric units; use of word ‘‘mass’’ in label 
is optional) or less; or 
(2) Use only with children who weigh 
between ____ and ____ pounds (____ and 
____ kg) and whose height is (insert ap-
propriate values in English and metric 
units; use of word ‘‘mass’’ in label is op-
tional) or less and who are capable of 
sitting upright alone; or 
(3) Use only with children who weigh 
between ____ and ____ pounds (____ and 
____ kg) and whose height is (insert ap-
propriate values in English and metric 
units; use of word ‘‘mass’’ in label is op-
tional) or less. 
(4) Use only with children who weigh 
between ____ and ____ pounds (insert ap-
propriate English and metric values; use 
of word ‘‘mass’’ is optional) and whose 
height is between ____ and ____ (insert 
appropriate values in English and metric 
units). 
(g) The heading and statement speci-
fied in paragraph (1), and if appro-
priate, the statements in paragraph (2) 
and (3). If used, the statements in para-
graphs (2) and (3) shall be bulleted and 
precede the bulleted statement re-
quired by paragraph (1) after the head-
ing. 
(1) 
A 
heading 
as 
specified 
in 
S5.5.2(k)(3)(i), 
with 
the 
statement 
‘‘WARNING! DEATH or SERIOUS IN-
JURY can occur,’’ capitalized as writ-
ten and followed by the bulleted state-
ment: Follow all instructions on the 
child restraint and in the vehicle’s 
owner’s manual. At the manufacturer’s 
option, the phrase ‘‘DEATH or SERI-
OUS INJURY can occur’’ in the head-
ing can be on either a white or yellow 
background. 
(2) In the case of each built-in child 
restraint system which is not intended 
for use in motor vehicles in certain ad-
justment positions or under certain 
circumstances, an appropriate state-
ment of the manufacturers restrictions 
regarding 
those 
positions 
or 
cir-
cumstances. 
(3) As appropriate, the statements re-
quired by the following sections will be 
bulleted and placed after the statement 
required by 5.5.5(g)(1) in the following 
order: 5.5.5(g)(2), 5.5.5(f), S5.5.5(h) and 
S5.5.5(i). 
(h) In the case of each built-in child 
restraint system that has belts de-
signed to restrain children using them 
and which do not adjust automatically 
to fit the child: Snugly adjust the belts 
provided 
with 
this 
child 
restraint 
around your child. 
(i) In the case of each built-in child 
restraint which can be used in a rear- 
facing position, the following state-
ment: Place an infant in a rear-facing 
position in this child restraint. 
(j) A diagram or diagrams showing 
the fully activated child restraint sys-
tem in infant and/or child configura-
tions. 


## Page 15

944 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
(k) One of the following statements, 
inserting an address and a U.S. tele-
phone number. If a manufacturer opts 
to provide a Web site on the registra-
tion card as permitted in Figure 9a of 
this section, the manufacturer must in-
clude the statement in part (ii): 
(i) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, e-mail ad-
dress if available (preceding four words 
are optional), and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert a U.S. tele-
phone number). For recall information, 
call the U.S. Government’s Vehicle 
Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
http:// 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(ii) ‘‘Child restraints could be re-
called for safety reasons. You must 
register this restraint to be reached in 
a recall. Send your name, address, e- 
mail address if available (preceding 
four words are optional), and the re-
straint’s model number and manufac-
turing date to (insert address) or call 
(insert telephone number) or register on-
line at (insert Web site for electronic reg-
istration form). For recall information, 
call the U.S. Government’s Vehicle 
Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
http:// 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(l) In the case of a built-in belt-posi-
tioning seat that uses either the vehi-
cle’s Type I or Type II belt systems or 
both, a statement describing the manu-
facturer’s recommendations for the 
maximum height and weight of chil-
dren who can safely occupy the system 
and how the booster should be used 
(e.g., with or without shield) with the 
different vehicle belt systems. 
S5.6
Printed Instructions for Proper 
Use. Any labels or written instructions 
provided in addition to those required 
by this section shall not obscure or 
confuse the meaning of the required in-
formation or be otherwise misleading 
to the consumer. Any labels or written 
instructions other than in the English 
language shall be an accurate trans-
lation of English labels or written in-
structions. Unless written in all cap-
itals, the information required by 
S5.6.1 through S5.6.3 shall be stated in 
sentence capitalization. 
S5.6.1
Add-on child restraint systems. 
Each add-on child restraint system 
shall be accompanied by printed instal-
lation instructions in English that pro-
vide a step-by-step procedure, includ-
ing diagrams, for installing the system 
in motor vehicles, securing the system 
in the vehicles, positioning a child in 
the system, and adjusting the system 
to fit the child. For each child re-
straint system that has components for 
attaching to a tether anchorage or a 
child restraint anchorage system, the 
installation instructions shall include 
a step-by-step procedure, including dia-
grams, for properly attaching to that 
anchorage or system. 
S5.6.1.1
In a vehicle with rear des-
ignated seating positions, the instruc-
tions shall alert vehicle owners that, 
according to accident statistics, chil-
dren are safer when properly restrained 
in the rear seating positions than in 
the front seating positions. 
S5.6.1.2
The instructions shall speci-
fy in general terms the types of vehi-
cles, the types of seating positions, and 
the types of vehicle safety belts with 
which the add-on child restraint sys-
tem can or cannot be used. 
S5.6.1.3
The instructions shall ex-
plain the primary consequences of not 
following the warnings required to be 
labeled on the child restraint system in 
accordance with S5.5.2 (g) through (k). 
S5.6.1.4
The instructions for each 
car bed shall explain that the car bed 
should position in such a way that the 
child’s head is near the center of the 
vehicle. 
S5.6.1.5
The instructions shall state 
that add-on child restraint systems 
should be securely belted to the vehi-
cle, even when they are not occupied, 
since in a crash an unsecured child re-
straint system may injure other occu-
pants. 
S5.6.1.6
Each add-on child restraint 
system shall have a location on the re-
straint for storing the manufacturer’s 
instructions. 
S5.6.1.7
(a) For child restraint sys-
tems manufactured before December 5, 
2024, one of the following statements, 
inserting an address and a U.S. tele-
phone number. If a manufacturer opts 
to provide a website on the registration 
card as permitted in Figure 9a of this 
section, the manufacturer must include 


## Page 16

945 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
the 
statement 
in 
paragraph 
S5.6.1.7(a)(2): 
(1) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, email address 
if available (preceding four words are 
optional), and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert a U.S. tele-
phone number). For recall information, 
call the U.S. Government’s Vehicle 
Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(2) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, email address 
if available (preceding four words are 
optional), and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert telephone 
number) or register online at (insert 
website for electronic registration form). 
For recall information, call the U.S. 
Government’s Vehicle Safety Hotline 
at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 1–800–424–9153), 
or go to www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(b) For child restraint systems manu-
factured on or after December 5, 2024, 
the child restraint system shall include 
statements informing the owner of the 
importance of registering the child re-
straint for recall purposes and in-
structing the owner how to register the 
child restraint at least by mail and by 
telephone, providing a U.S. telephone 
number. The following statement must 
also be provided: ‘‘For recall informa-
tion, call the U.S. Government’s Vehi-
cle Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 
(TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
S5.6.1.8
In the case of each child re-
straint system that can be used in a 
position so that it is facing the rear of 
the vehicle, the instructions shall pro-
vide a warning against using rear-fac-
ing restraints at seating positions 
equipped with air bags, and shall ex-
plain the reasons for, and consequences 
of not following the warning. The in-
structions shall also include a state-
ment that owners of vehicles with 
front passenger side air bags should 
refer to their vehicle owner’s manual 
for child restraint installation instruc-
tions. 
S5.6.1.9
In the case of each rear-fac-
ing child restraint system that has a 
means for repositioning the seating 
surface of the system that allows the 
system’s occupant to move from a re-
clined position to an upright position 
during testing, the instructions shall 
include a warning against impeding the 
ability of the restraint to change ad-
justment position. 
S5.6.1.10(a) For instructions for a 
booster seat that is recommended for 
use with either a vehicle’s Type I or 
Type II seat belt assembly, one of the 
following statements, as appropriate, 
and the reasons for the statement: 
(1) Warning! Use only the vehicle’s 
lap and shoulder belt system when re-
straining the child in this booster seat; 
or, 
(2) Warning! Use only the vehicle’s 
lap belt system, or the lap belt part of 
a lap/shoulder belt system with the 
shoulder belt placed behind the child, 
when restraining the child in this seat. 
(b)(1) 
Except 
as 
provided 
in 
S5.6.1.10(b)(2), the instructions for a 
booster seat that is recommended for 
use with both a vehicle’s Type I and 
Type II seat belt assemblies shall in-
clude the following statement and the 
reasons therefor: Warning! Use only 
the vehicle’s lap belt system, or the lap 
belt part of a lap/shoulder belt system 
with the shoulder belt placed behind 
the child, when restraining the child 
with the (insert description of the system 
element provided to restrain forward 
movement of the child’s torso when used 
with a lap belt (e.g., shield)), and only 
the vehicle’s lap and shoulder belt sys-
tem when using this booster without 
the (insert above description). 
(2) A booster seat which is rec-
ommended for use with both a vehicle’s 
Type I and Type II seat belt assemblies 
is not subject to S5.6.1.10(b)(1) if, when 
the booster is used with the shield or 
similar component, the booster will 
cause the shoulder belt to be located in 
a position other than in front of the 
child when the booster is installed. 
However, the instructions for such a 
booster shall include a warning to use 
the booster with the vehicle’s lap and 
shoulder belt system when using the 
booster without a shield. 


## Page 17

946 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
(c) The instructions for belt-posi-
tioning seats shall include the state-
ment, ‘‘This restraint is not certified 
for aircraft use,’’ and the reasons for 
this statement. 
S5.6.1.11
(a) For harnesses that are 
manufactured before December 5, 2024, 
for use on school bus seats, the instruc-
tions must include the following state-
ment: 
‘‘WARNING! 
This 
restraint 
must 
only be used on school bus seats. En-
tire seat directly behind must be unoc-
cupied or have restrained occupants.’’ 
The labeling requirement refers to a 
restrained occupant as: an occupant re-
strained by any user appropriate vehi-
cle restraint or child restraint system 
(e.g., lap belt, lap and shoulder belt, 
booster, child seat, harness . . .). 
(b) For school bus child restraint sys-
tems manufactured on or after Decem-
ber 5, 2024, the instructions must in-
clude the following statement: 
‘‘WARNING! 
This 
restraint 
must 
only be used on school bus seats. En-
tire seat directly behind must be unoc-
cupied or have restrained occupants.’’ 
(The instruction’s reference to a ‘‘re-
strained occupant’’ refers to an occu-
pant restrained by any user-appro-
priate vehicle restraint or child re-
straint system (e.g., lap belt, lap and 
shoulder belt, booster seat or other 
child restraint system.) 
S5.6.1.12
(a) Child restraint systems 
manufactured from February 27, 2014 to 
February 26, 2015. The instructions for 
child restraint systems equipped with 
an internal harness to restrain the 
child and with components to attach to 
a child restraint anchorage system, 
and for which the combined weight of 
the child restraint system and the 
maximum recommended child weight 
for use with the internal harness ex-
ceeds 65 pounds, must include the fol-
lowing statement: ‘‘Do not use the 
lower anchors of the child restraint an-
chorage system (LATCH system) to at-
tach this child restraint when restrain-
ing a child weighing more than ‘‘*’’ 
[*insert a recommended weight value 
in English and metric units such that 
the sum of the recommended weight 
value and the weight of the child re-
straint system does not exceed 65 
pounds (29.5 kg)] with the internal har-
ness of the child restraint.’’ 
(b) Child restraint systems manufac-
tured on or after February 27, 2015. If the 
child restraint is designed to meet the 
requirements of this standard when in-
stalled by the child restraint anchor-
age system according to S5.3.2, the in-
stallation diagram showing the child 
restraint system installed using a child 
restraint anchorage system must meet 
the specifications in S5.5.2(l)(3). 
S5.6.2
Built-in child restraint systems. 
(a) Each built-in child restraint system 
shall be accompanied by printed in-
structions in English that provide a 
step-by-step procedure, including dia-
grams, for activating the restraint sys-
tem, positioning a child in the system, 
adjusting the restraint and, if provided, 
the restraint harness to fit the child. 
The instructions for each built-in car 
bed shall explain that the child should 
be positioned in the bed in such a way 
that the child’s head is near the center 
of the vehicle. 
(b) Each motor vehicle equipped with 
a factory-installed built-in child re-
straint shall have the information 
specified in paragraph (a) of this sec-
tion included in its vehicle owner’s 
manual. 
S5.6.2.1 The instructions shall ex-
plain the primary consequences of not 
following the manufacturer’s warnings 
for proper use of the child restraint 
system in accordance with S5.5.5 (f) 
through (i). 
S5.6.2.2
(a) For child restraint sys-
tems manufactured before December 5, 
2024, the instructions for each built-in 
child restraint system other than a fac-
tory-installed restraint, shall include 
one of the following statements, insert-
ing an address and a U.S. telephone 
number. If a manufacturer opts to pro-
vide a website on the registration card 
as permitted in Figure 9a of this sec-
tion, the manufacturer must include 
the statement in S5.6.2.2(a)(2): 
(1) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, email address 
if available (preceding four words are 
optional), and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert a U.S. tele-
phone number). For recall information, 
call the U.S. Government’s Vehicle 
Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 


## Page 18

947 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(2) ‘‘Child restraints could be recalled 
for safety reasons. You must register 
this restraint to be reached in a recall. 
Send your name, address, email address 
if available (preceding four words are 
optional), and the restraint’s model 
number and manufacturing date to 
(insert address) or call (insert U.S. tele-
phone number) or register online at 
(insert website for electronic registration 
form). For recall information, call the 
U.S. Government’s Vehicle Safety Hot-
line at 1–888–327–4236 (TTY: 1–800–424– 
9153), or go to www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
(b) For child restraint systems manu-
factured on or after December 5, 2024, 
the instructions for each built-in child 
restraint system other than a factory- 
installed restraint shall include state-
ments informing the owner of the im-
portance of registering the child re-
straint for recall purposes and in-
structing the owner how to register the 
child restraint at least by mail and by 
telephone, providing a U.S. telephone 
number. The following statement must 
also be provided: ‘‘For recall informa-
tion, call the U.S. Government’s Vehi-
cle Safety Hotline at 1–888–327–4236 
(TTY: 
1–800–424–9153), 
or 
go 
to 
www.NHTSA.gov.’’ 
S5.6.2.3.
Each 
built-in 
child 
re-
straint system other than a factory-in-
stalled built-in restraint, shall have a 
location on the restraint for storing 
the instructions. 
S5.6.2.4
Each built-in child restraint 
system, other than a system that has 
been installed in a vehicle or a factory- 
installed built-in system that is de-
signed for a specific vehicle model and 
seating position, shall be accompanied 
by instructions in English that provide 
a step-by-step procedure for installing 
the system in a motor vehicle. The in-
structions shall specify the types of ve-
hicles and the seating positions into 
which the restraint can or cannot be 
installed. The instructions for each car 
bed shall explain that the bed should be 
installed so that the child’s head will 
be near the center of the vehicle. 
S5.6.2.5
In the case of a built-in belt- 
positioning seat that uses either the 
vehicle’s Type I or Type II belt systems 
or both, the instructions shall include 
a statement describing the manufac-
turer’s recommendations for the max-
imum height and weight of children 
who can safely occupy the system and 
how the booster must be used with the 
vehicle belt systems appropriate for 
the booster seat. The instructions shall 
explain the consequences of not fol-
lowing the directions. The instructions 
shall specify that, if the booster seat is 
recommended for use with only the lap- 
belt part of a Type II assembly, the 
shoulder belt portion of the assembly 
must be placed behind the child. 
S5.6.3
Add-on and built-in child re-
straint systems. In the case of each child 
restraint system that has belts de-
signed to restrain children using them 
and which do not adjust automatically 
to fit the child, the printed instruc-
tions shall include the following state-
ment: A snug strap should not allow 
any slack. It lies in a relatively 
straight line without sagging. It does 
not press on the child’s flesh or push 
the child’s body into an unnatural posi-
tion. 
S5.7 Flammability. Each material used 
in a child restraint system shall con-
form to the requirements of S4 of 
FMVSS No. 302 (571.302). In the case of 
a built-in child restraint system, the 
requirements of S4 of FMVSS No. 302 
shall be met in both the ‘‘in-use’’ and 
‘‘stowed’’ positions. 
S5.8
Information requirements—at-
tached registration form and electronic 
registration form. 
S5.8.1
Attached registration form. (a) 
For child restraint systems manufac-
tured before December 5, 2024, each 
child restraint system, except a fac-
tory-installed built-in restraint sys-
tem, shall have a registration form at-
tached to any surface of the restraint 
that contacts the dummy when the 
dummy is positioned in the system in 
accordance with S6.1.2 of Standard 213. 
(b) Each attached form shall: 
(1) Consist of a postcard that is at-
tached at a perforation to an informa-
tional card; 
(2) Conform in size, content and for-
mat to Figures 9a and 9b of this sec-
tion; and 
(3) Have a thickness of at least 0.007 
inches and not more than 0.0095 inches. 
(c) Each postcard shall provide the 
model name or number and date of 
manufacture (month, year) of the child 


## Page 19

948 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
restraint system to which the form is 
attached, shall contain space for the 
purchaser to record his or her name, 
mailing address, and at the manufac-
turer’s option, e-mail address, shall be 
addressed to the manufacturer, and 
shall be postage paid. No other infor-
mation shall appear on the postcard, 
except identifying information that 
distinguishes a particular child re-
straint system from other systems of 
that model name or number may be 
preprinted in the shaded area of the 
postcard, as shown in figure 9a. 
(d) Manufacturers may voluntarily 
provide a web address on the informa-
tional card enabling owners to register 
child restraints online, provided that 
the Web address is a direct link to the 
electronic registration form meeting 
the requirements of S5.8.2 of this sec-
tion. 
S5.8.1.1
Upgraded attached registra-
tion form. For child restraint systems 
manufactured on or after December 5, 
2024, each child restraint system, ex-
cept a factory-installed built-in re-
straint system, shall have a registra-
tion form attached to any surface of 
the restraint that contacts the dummy 
when the dummy is positioned in the 
system in accordance with S6.1.2 of 
Standard 213. The form shall not have 
advertising or any information other 
than that related to registering the 
child restraint system. 
(a) Each attached registration form 
shall provide a mail-in postcard that 
conforms in size, and in basic content 
and format to the forms depicted in 
Figures 9a’ and 9b’ of this section. 
(1) The mail-in postcard shall: 
(i) Have a thickness of at least 0.007 
inches and not more than 0.0095 inches; 
(ii) Be pre-printed with the informa-
tion identifying the child restraint sys-
tem for recall purposes, such as the 
model name or number and date of 
manufacture (month, year) of the child 
restraint system to which the form is 
attached; 
(iii) Contain space for the owner to 
record his or her name, mailing ad-
dress, email address (optional), tele-
phone number (optional), and other 
pertinent information; 
(iv) Be addressed to the manufac-
turer, and be postage paid. 
(v) Be detachable from the informa-
tion card without the use of scissors or 
other tools. 
(c) The registration form attached to 
the child restraint system shall also 
provide an information card with the 
following: 
(1) Informing the owner of the impor-
tance of registering the child restraint 
system; and, 
(2) Instructing the owner how to reg-
ister the CRS. 
(3) 
Manufacturers 
must 
provide 
statements informing the purchaser 
that the registration card is pre-ad-
dressed and that postage has been paid. 
(4) Manufacturers may provide in-
structions to register the child re-
straint system electronically. If an 
electronic registration form is used or 
referenced, it must meet the require-
ments of S5.8.2 of this section. 
(5) Manufacturers may optionally 
provide statements to the owner ex-
plaining that the registration card is 
not a warranty card, and that the in-
formation collected from the owner 
will not be used for marketing pur-
poses. 
S5.8.2
Electronic registration form. (a) 
Each electronic registration form pro-
vided for child restraint systems manu-
factured before December 5, 2024, shall: 
(1) Contain the following statements 
at the top of the form: 
(i) ‘‘FOR YOUR CHILD’S CONTIN-
UED SAFETY’’ (Displayed in bold type 
face, caps, and minimum 12 point type.) 
(ii) ‘‘Although child restraint sys-
tems undergo testing and evaluation, it 
is possible that a child restraint could 
be recalled.’’ (Displayed in bold type-
face, caps and lower case, and min-
imum 12 point type.) 
(iii) ‘‘In case of a recall, we can reach 
you only if we have your name and ad-
dress, so please fill in the registration 
form to be on our recall list.’’ (Dis-
played in bold typeface, caps and lower 
case, and minimum 12 point type.) 
(iv) ‘‘In order to properly register 
your child restraint system, you will 
need to provide the model number, se-
rial number and date of manufacture. 
This information is printed on the reg-
istration card and can also be found on 
a white label located on the back of the 
child restraint system.’’ (Displayed in 


## Page 20

949 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
bold typeface, caps and lower case, and 
minimum 12 point type.) 
(v) ‘‘This registration is only applica-
ble to child restraint systems pur-
chased in the United States.’’ (Dis-
played in bold typeface, caps and lower 
case, and minimum 12 point type.) 
(2) Provide as required registration 
fields, space for the purchaser to record 
the model name or number and date of 
manufacture (month, year) of the child 
restraint system, and space for the pur-
chaser to record his or her name and 
mailing address. At the manufacturer’s 
option, a space is provided for the pur-
chaser to record his or her e-mail ad-
dress. 
(b) No other information shall appear 
on the electronic registration form, ex-
cept for information identifying the 
manufacturer or a link to the manufac-
turer’s home page, a field to confirm 
submission, and a prompt to indicate 
any incomplete or invalid fields prior 
to submission. Accessing the web page 
that contains the electronic registra-
tion form shall not cause additional 
screens or electronic banners to ap-
pear. 
(c) The electronic registration form 
shall be accessed directly by the web 
address that the manufacturer printed 
on the attached registration form. The 
form must appear on screen when the 
consumer has inputted the web address 
provided by the manufacturer, without 
any further keystrokes on the key-
board or clicks of the mouse. 
S5.8.2.1
Upgraded electronic registra-
tion form. (a) Each electronic registra-
tion form provided for child restraint 
systems manufactured on or after De-
cember 5, 2024, shall: 
(1) Contain statements at the top of 
the form: 
(i) Informing the owner of the impor-
tance of registering the CRS; and, 
(ii) Instructing the owner how to reg-
ister the CRS. 
(2) Provide as required registration 
fields, space for the purchaser to record 
the model name or number and date of 
manufacture (month, year) of the child 
restraint system, and space for the pur-
chaser to record his or her name and 
mailing address. At the manufacturer’s 
option, a space is provided for the pur-
chaser to optionally record his or her 
email address. At the manufacturer’s 
option, a space is provided for the pur-
chaser to optionally record his or her 
telephone number. 
(b) No advertising or other informa-
tion shall appear on the electronic reg-
istration form. However, manufactur-
ers may optionally provide a statement 
to the owner explaining that the reg-
istration is not a warranty card, and 
that the information collected from 
the owner will not be used for mar-
keting purposes. 
(c) The electronic registration form 
may provide information identifying 
the manufacturer or a link to the man-
ufacturer’s home page, a field to con-
firm submission, and a prompt to indi-
cate any incomplete or invalid fields 
prior to submission. 
(d) If a manufacturer printed the 
electronic address (in form of a website 
(printed URL)) on the attached reg-
istration form provided pursuant to 
S5.8.1, the electronic registration form 
shall be accessed directly by the elec-
tronic address. Accessing the elec-
tronic address (in form of a website 
(printed URL) that contains the elec-
tronic registration form shall not 
cause additional screens or electronic 
banners to appear. In addition to the 
electronic address in form of a website, 
manufacturers may include a code 
(such as a QR code or similar) to access 
the electronic address. 
S5.9
Attachment to child restraint an-
chorage system. (a) Each add-on child 
restraint system other than a car bed, 
harness and belt-positioning seat, shall 
have 
components 
permanently 
at-
tached to the system that enable the 
restraint to be securely fastened to the 
lower anchorages of the child restraint 
anchorage system specified in Stand-
ard No. 225 (§ 571.225) and depicted in 
Drawing Package SAS–100–1000, Stand-
ard Seat Belt Assembly with Adden-
dum 
A 
or 
in 
Drawing 
Package, 
‘‘NHTSA 
Standard 
Seat 
Assembly; 
FMVSS No. 213, No. NHTSA–213–2003’’ 
(both incorporated by reference, see 
§ 571.5). The components must be at-
tached by use of a tool, such as a 
screwdriver. In the case of rear-facing 
child restraints with detachable bases, 
only the base is required to have the 
components. 
(b) In the case of each child restraint 
system that is manufactured on or 


## Page 21

950 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
after September 1, 1999 and that has 
components for attaching the system 
to a tether anchorage, those compo-
nents shall include a tether hook that 
conforms to the configuration and ge-
ometry specified in Figure 11 of this 
standard. 
(c) In the case of each child restraint 
system that is manufactured on or 
after September 1, 1999 and that has 
components, including belt webbing, 
for attaching the system to a tether 
anchorage or to a child restraint an-
chorage system, the belt webbing shall 
be adjustable so that the child re-
straint can be tightly attached to the 
vehicle. 
(d) Beginning September 1, 1999, each 
child restraint system with compo-
nents that enable the restraint to be 
securely fastened to the lower anchor-
ages of a child restraint anchorage sys-
tem, other than a system with hooks 
for attaching to the lower anchorages, 
shall provide either an indication when 
each attachment to the lower anchor-
ages becomes fully latched or attached, 
or a visual indication that all attach-
ments to the lower anchorages are 
fully latched or attached. Visual indi-
cations shall be detectable under nor-
mal daylight lighting conditions. 
S6.
Test conditions and procedures. 
S6.1
Dynamic systems test for child re-
straint systems. 
The test conditions described in 
S6.1.1 apply to the dynamic systems 
test. The test procedure for the dy-
namic systems test is specified in 
S6.1.2. The test dummy specified in S7 
is placed in the test specimen (child re-
straint), clothed as described in S9 and 
positioned according to S10. 
S6.1.1
Test conditions. 
(a) Test devices. 
(1) Add-on child restraints. 
(i) [Reserved] 
(ii) The test device for add-on re-
straint systems manufactured on or 
after August 1, 2005 is a standard seat 
assembly consisting of a simulated ve-
hicle bench seat, with three seating po-
sitions, which is depicted in Drawing 
Package, ‘‘NHTSA Standard Seat As-
sembly; FMVSS No. 213, No. NHTSA– 
213–2003,’’ (consisting of drawings and a 
bill of materials) dated June 3, 2003 (in-
corporated by reference; see § 571.5). 
The assembly is mounted on a dynamic 
test platform so that the center SORL 
of the seat is parallel to the direction 
of the test platform travel and so that 
movement between the base of the as-
sembly and the platform is prevented. 
(2) The test device for built-in child 
restraint systems is either the specific 
vehicle shell or the specific vehicle. 
(i) Specific vehicle shell. 
(A) The specific vehicle shell, if se-
lected for testing, is mounted on a dy-
namic test platform so that the longi-
tudinal center line of the shell is par-
allel to the direction of the test plat-
form travel and so that movement be-
tween the base of the shell and the 
platform is prevented. Adjustable seats 
are in the adjustment position midway 
between the forwardmost and rearmost 
positions, and if separately adjustable 
in a vertical direction, are at the low-
est position. If an adjustment position 
does not exist midway between the 
forwardmost and rearmost position, 
the closest adjustment position to the 
rear of the midpoint is used. Adjustable 
seat backs are in the manufacturer’s 
nominal design riding position. If such 
a position is not specified, the seat 
back is positioned so that the longitu-
dinal center line of the child test dum-
my’s neck is vertical, and if an instru-
mented test dummy is used, the accel-
erometer surfaces in the dummy’s head 
and thorax, as positioned in the vehi-
cle, are horizontal. If the vehicle seat 
is equipped with adjustable head re-
straints, each is adjusted to its highest 
adjustment position. 
(B) The platform is instrumented 
with an accelerometer and data proc-
essing system having a frequency re-
sponse of 60 Hz channel frequency class 
as specified in SAE Recommended 
Practice J211/1, (incorporated by ref-
erence, see § 571.5). The accelerometer 
sensitive axis is parallel to the direc-
tion of test platform travel. 
(ii) Specific vehicle. For built-in child 
restraint systems, an alternate test de-
vice is the specific vehicle into which 
the built-in system is fabricated. The 
following test conditions apply to this 
alternate test device. 
(A) The vehicle is loaded to its un-
loaded vehicle weight plus its rated 
cargo and luggage capacity weight, se-
cured in the luggage area, plus the ap-
propriate child test dummy and, at the 


## Page 22

951 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
vehicle 
manufacturer’s 
option, 
an 
anthropomorphic test dummy which 
conforms to the requirements of sub-
part B or subpart E of part 572 of this 
title for a 50th percentile adult male 
dummy placed in the front outboard 
seating position. If the built-in child 
restraint system is installed at one of 
the seating positions otherwise requir-
ing the placement of a part 572 test 
dummy, then in the frontal barrier 
crash specified in (c), the appropriate 
child test dummy shall be substituted 
for the part 572 adult dummy, but only 
at that seating position. The fuel tank 
is filled to any level from 90 to 95 per-
cent of capacity. 
(B) Adjustable seats are in the ad-
justment position midway between the 
forward-most and rearmost positions, 
and if separately adjustable in a vehi-
cle direction, are at the lowest posi-
tion. If an adjustment position does 
not exist midway between the forward- 
most and rearmost positions, the clos-
est adjustment position to the rear of 
the midpoint is used. 
(C) Adjustable seat backs are in the 
manufacturer’s nominal design riding 
position. If a nominal position is not 
specified, the seat back is positioned so 
that the longitudinal center line of the 
child test dummy’s neck is vertical, 
and if an anthropomorphic test dummy 
is used, the accelerometer surfaces in 
the test dummy’s head and thorax, as 
positioned in the vehicle, are hori-
zontal. If the vehicle is equipped with 
adjustable head restraints, each is ad-
justed to its highest adjustment posi-
tion. 
(D) Movable vehicle windows and 
vents are, at the manufacturer’s op-
tion, placed in the fully closed posi-
tion. 
(E) Convertibles and open-body type 
vehicles have the top, if any, in place 
in the closed passenger compartment 
configuration. 
(F) Doors are fully closed and latched 
but not locked. 
(G) All instrumentation and data re-
duction are in conformance with SAE 
Recommended Practice J211/1 (1995), 
‘‘Instrumentation for Impact Tests,’’ 
(incorporated by reference, see § 571.5). 
(b) The tests are frontal barrier im-
pact simulations of the test platform 
or frontal barrier crashes of the spe-
cific vehicles as specified in S5.1 of 
§ 571.208 and for: 
(1) Test Configuration I, are at a ve-
locity change of 48 km/h with the ac-
celeration of the test platform entirely 
within the curve shown in Figure 2 (for 
child restraints manufactured before 
August 1, 2005) or in Figure 2A (for 
child restraints manufactured on or 
after August 1, 2005), or for the specific 
vehicle test with the deceleration pro-
duced in a 48 km/h frontal barrier 
crash. 
(2) Test Configuration II, are set at a 
velocity change of 32 km/h with the ac-
celeration of the test platform entirely 
within the curve shown in Figure 3, or 
for the specific vehicle test, with the 
deceleration produced in a 32 km/h 
frontal barrier crash. 
(c) As illustrated in Figures 1A and 
1B of this standard, attached to the 
seat belt anchorage points provided on 
the standard seat assembly are Type 1 
seat belt assemblies in the case of add- 
on child restraint systems other than 
belt-positioning seats, or Type 2 seat 
belt assemblies in the case of belt-posi-
tioning seats. These seat belt assem-
blies meet the requirements of Stand-
ard No. 209 (§ 571.209) and have webbing 
with a width of not more than 2 inches, 
and are attached to the anchorage 
points without the use of retractors or 
reels of any kind. As illustrated in Fig-
ures 1A’’ and 1B’’ of this standard, at-
tached to the standard seat assembly is 
a child restraint anchorage system 
conforming to the specifications of 
Standard No. 225 (§ 571.225), in the case 
of add-on child restraint systems other 
than belt-positioning booster seats. 
(d)(1) When using the test dummy 
specified in 49 CFR part 572, subparts I 
and K, performance tests under S6.1 are 
conducted at any ambient temperature 
from 19 °C to 26 °C and at any relative 
humidity from 10 percent to 70 percent. 
(2) When using the test dummies 
specified in 49 CFR part 572, subparts 
N, P, R or T, performance tests under 
S6.1 are conducted at any ambient tem-
perature from 20.6 °C to 22.2 °C and at 
any relative humidity from 10 percent 
to 70 percent. 
(e) In the case of add-on child re-
straint systems, the restraint shall 
meet the requirements of S5 at each of 


## Page 23

952 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
its seat back angle adjustment posi-
tions and restraint belt routing posi-
tions, when the restraint is oriented in 
the direction recommended by the 
manufacturer (e.g., forward, rearward 
or laterally) pursuant to S5.6, and test-
ed with the test dummy specified in S7. 
S6.1.2
Dynamic test procedure. 
(a) Activate the built-in child re-
straint or attach the add-on child re-
straint to the seat assembly as de-
scribed below: 
(1) Test configuration I. 
(i) Child restraints other than belt-posi-
tioning seats. Attach the child restraint 
in any of the following manners speci-
fied in S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A) through (D), 
unless 
otherwise 
specified 
in 
this 
standard. 
(A) Install the child restraint system 
at the center seating position of the 
standard seat assembly, in accordance 
with the manufacturer’s instructions 
provided with the system pursuant to 
S5.6.1, except that the standard lap belt 
is used and, if provided, a tether strap 
may be used. For harnesses that bear 
the label shown in Figure 12 and that 
meet S5.3.1(b)(1) through S5.3.1(b)(3), 
attach the harness in accordance with 
the manufacturer’s instructions pro-
vided with the system pursuant to 
S5.6.1, i.e., the seat back mount is used. 
(B) Except for a child harness, a 
school bus child restraint system, and 
a restraint designed for use by children 
with physical disabilities, install the 
child restraint system at the center 
seating position of the standard seat 
assembly as in S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(A), except 
that no tether strap (or any other sup-
plemental device) is used. 
(C) Install the child restraint system 
using the child restraint anchorage 
system at the center seating position 
of the standard seat assembly in ac-
cordance with the manufacturer’s in-
structions provided with the system 
pursuant to S5.6.1. The tether strap, if 
one is provided, is attached to the teth-
er anchorage. 
(D) Install the child restraint system 
using only the lower anchorages of the 
child restraint anchorage system as in 
S6.1.2(a)(1)(i)(C). No tether strap (or 
any other supplemental device) is used. 
(ii) Belt-positioning seats. A belt-posi-
tioning seat is attached to either out-
board seating position of the standard 
seat assembly in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s instructions provided 
with the system pursuant to S5.6.1 
using only the standard vehicle lap and 
shoulder belt and no tether (or any 
other supplemental device). Place the 
belt-positioning seat on the standard 
seat assembly such that the center 
plane of the belt-positioning seat is 
parallel and aligned to the center plane 
of the outboard seating positions on 
the standard seat assembly and the 
base of the belt-positioning seat is flat 
on the standard seat assembly cushion. 
Move the belt-positioning seat rear-
ward on the standard seat assembly 
until some part of the belt-positioning 
seat touches the standard seat assem-
bly back. Keep the belt-positioning 
seat and the seating position center 
plane aligned as much as possible. 
Apply 133 N (30 pounds) of force to the 
front of the belt-positioning seat rear-
ward into the standard seat assembly 
and release. 
(iii) In the case of each built-in child 
restraint system, activate the restraint 
in the specific vehicle shell or the spe-
cific vehicle, in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s instructions provided 
in accordance with S5.6.2. 
(2) Test configuration II. (i) In the case 
of each add-on child restraint system 
which is equipped with a fixed or mov-
able surface described in S5.2.2.2, or a 
backless child restraint system with a 
top anchorage strap, install the add-on 
child restraint system at the center 
seating position of the standard seat 
assembly using only the standard seat 
lap belt to secure the system to the 
standard seat. 
(ii) In the case of each built-in child 
restraint system which is equipped 
with a fixed or movable surface de-
scribed in S5.2.2.2, or a built-in booster 
seat with a top anchorage strap, acti-
vate the system in the specific vehicle 
shell or the specific vehicle in accord-
ance with the manufacturer’s instruc-
tions provided in accordance with 
S5.6.2. 
(b) Select any dummy specified in S7 
for testing systems for use by children 
of the heights and weights for which 
the system is recommended in accord-
ance with S5.5. The dummy is assem-
bled, clothed and prepared as specified 


## Page 24

953 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
in S7 and S9 and Part 572 of this chap-
ter, as appropriate. 
(c) Place the dummy in the child re-
straint. Position it, and attach the 
child restraint belts, if appropriate, as 
specified in S10. 
(d) Belt adjustment. 
(1) Add-on systems other than belt-posi-
tioning seats. 
(i) If appropriate, shoulder and pelvic 
belts that directly restrain the dummy 
shall be adjusted as follows: Tighten 
the belts until a 9 N force applied (as il-
lustrated in figure 5) to the webbing at 
the top of each dummy shoulder and to 
the pelvic webbing 50 mm on either 
side of the torso midsagittal plane 
pulls the webbing 7 mm from the 
dummy. 
(ii) All Type I belt systems used to 
attach an add-on child restraint sys-
tem to the standard seat assembly, and 
any provided additional anchorage belt 
(tether), are tightened to a tension of 
not less than 53.5 N and not more than 
67 N, as measured by a load cell used on 
the webbing portion of the belt. All 
belt systems used to attach a harness 
that bears the label shown in Figure 12 
and that meets S5.3.1(b)(i) through 
S5.3.1(b)(iii) are also tightened to a 
tension of not less than 53.5 N and not 
more than 67 N, by measurement 
means specified in this paragraph. 
(iii) When attaching a child restraint 
system to the tether anchorage and the 
child restraint anchorage system on 
the standard seat assembly, tighten all 
belt systems used to attach the re-
straint to the standard seat assembly 
to a tension of not less than 53.5 N and 
not more than 67 N, as measured by a 
load cell or other suitable means used 
on the webbing portion of the belt. 
(2) Add-on belt-positioning seats. 
(i) The lap portion of Type II belt 
systems used to restrain the dummy is 
tightened to a tension of not less than 
9 N (2 pounds) and not more than 18 N 
(4 pounds). 
(ii) The shoulder portion of Type II 
belt systems used to restrain the 
dummy is tightened to a tension of not 
less than 9 N (2 pounds) and not more 
than 18 N (4 pounds). 
(3) Built-in child restraint systems. 
(i) The lap portion of Type II belt 
systems used to secure a dummy to the 
built-in child restraint system is tight-
ened to a tension of not less than 53.5 
N and not more than 67 N, as measured 
by a load cell used on the webbing por-
tion of the belt. 
(ii) The shoulder portion of Type II 
belt systems used to secure a child is 
tightened to a tension of not less than 
9 N and not more than 18 N, as meas-
ured by a load cell used on the webbing 
portion of the belt. 
(iii) If provided, and if appropriate to 
attach the child restraint belts under 
S10, shoulder (other than the shoulder 
portion of a Type II vehicle belt sys-
tem) and pelvic belts that directly re-
strain the dummy shall be adjusted as 
follows: Tighten the belts until a 9 N 
force applied (as illustrated in figure 5) 
to the webbing at the top of each 
dummy shoulder and to the pelvic web-
bing 50 mm on either side of the torso 
midsagittal plane pulls the webbing 7 
mm from the dummy. 
(e) Accelerate the test platform to 
simulate frontal impact in accordance 
with Test Configuration I or II, as ap-
propriate. 
(f) Determine conformance with the 
requirements in S5.1. 
S6.2
Buckle release test procedure. 
The belt assembly buckles used in 
any child restraint system shall be 
tested 
in 
accordance 
with 
S6.2.1 
through S6.2.4 inclusive. 
S6.2.1
Before conducting the testing 
specified in S6.1, place the loaded buck-
le on a hard, flat, horizontal surface. 
Each belt end of the buckle shall be 
pre-loaded in the following manner. 
The anchor end of the buckle shall be 
loaded with a 9 N force in the direction 
away from the buckle. In the case of 
buckles designed to secure a single 
latch plate, the belt latch plate end of 
the buckle shall be pre-loaded with a 9 
N force in the direction away from the 
buckle. In the case of buckles designed 
to secure two or more latch plates, the 
belt latch plate ends of the buckle shall 
be loaded equally so that the total load 
is 9 N, in the direction away from the 
buckle. For pushbutton-release buck-
les, the release force shall be applied 
by a conical surface (cone angle not ex-
ceeding 90 degrees). For pushbutton-re-
lease mechanisms with a fixed edge (re-
ferred to in Figure 7 as ‘‘hinged but-
ton’’), the release force shall be applied 
at the centerline of the button, 3 mm 


## Page 25

954 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
away from the movable edge directly 
opposite the fixed edge, and in the di-
rection that produces maximum releas-
ing 
effect. 
For 
pushbutton-release 
mechanisms with no fixed edge (re-
ferred to in Figure 7 as ‘‘floating but-
ton’’), the release force shall be applied 
at the center of the release mechanism 
in the direction that produces the max-
imum releasing effect. For all other 
buckle release mechanisms, the force 
shall be applied on the centerline of 
the buckle lever or finger tab in the di-
rection that produces the maximum re-
leasing effect. Measure the force re-
quired to release the buckle. Figure 7 
illustrates the loading for the different 
buckles and the point where the release 
force should be applied, and Figure 8 il-
lustrates the conical surface used to 
apply the release force to pushbutton- 
release buckles. 
S6.2.2
After completion of the test-
ing specified in S6.1 and before the 
buckle is unlatched, tie a self-adjusting 
sling to each wrist and ankle of the 
test dummy in the manner illustrated 
in Figure 4, without disturbing the 
belted dummy and the child restraint 
system. 
S6.2.3
Pull the sling tied to the 
dummy restrained in the child re-
straint system and apply the following 
force: 50 N for a system tested with a 
newborn dummy (49 CFR part 572, sub-
part K); 90 N for a system tested with 
a 12-month-old dummy (49 CFR part 
572, subpart R); 200 N for a system test-
ed with a 3-year-old dummy (49 CFR 
part 572, subpart P); 270 N for a system 
tested with a 6-year-old dummy (49 
CFR part 572, subpart N or I); 350 N for 
a system tested with a weighted 6-year- 
old dummy (49 CFR part 572, subpart 
S); or 437 N for a system tested with a 
10-year-old dummy (49 CFR part 572, 
subpart T). The force is applied in the 
manner illustrated in Figure 4 and as 
follows: 
(a) Add-on Child Restraints. For an 
add-on child restraint other than a car 
bed, apply the specified force by pull-
ing the sling horizontally and parallel 
to the SORL of the standard seat as-
sembly. For a car bed, apply the force 
by pulling the sling vertically. 
(b) Built-in Child Restraints. For a 
built-in child restraint other than a car 
bed, apply the force by pulling the 
sling parallel to the longitudinal cen-
terline of the specific vehicle shell or 
the specific vehicle. In the case of a car 
bed, apply the force by pulling the 
sling vertically. 
S6.2.4
While applying the force spec-
ified in S6.2.3, and using the device 
shown in Figure 8 for pushbutton-re-
lease buckles, apply the release force 
in the manner and location specified in 
S6.2.1, for that type of buckle. Measure 
the force required to release the buck-
le. 
S6.3 [Reserved] 
S7
Test 
dummies. 
(Subparts 
ref-
erenced in this section are of part 572 
of this chapter.) S7.1 Dummy selection. 
Select any dummy specified in S7.1.1, 
S7.1.2 or S7.1.3, as appropriate, for test-
ing systems for use by children of the 
height and mass for which the system 
is recommended in accordance with 
S5.5. A child restraint that meets the 
criteria in two or more of the following 
paragraphs in S7 may be tested with 
any of the test dummies specified in 
those paragraphs. 
S7.1.1 [Reserved] 
S7.1.2
Child restraints that are man-
ufactured on or after August 1, 2005, are 
subject to the following provisions and 
S7.1.3. 
(a) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass of 
not greater than 5 kg, or by children in 
a specified height range that includes 
any children whose height is not great-
er than 650 mm, is tested with a new-
born test dummy conforming to part 
572 subpart K. 
(b) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass 
greater than 5 but not greater than 10 
kg, or by children in a specified height 
range that includes any children whose 
height is greater than 650 mm but not 
greater than 850 mm, is tested with a 
newborn test dummy conforming to 
part 572 subpart K, and a 12-month-old 
test dummy conforming to part 572 
subpart R. 


## Page 26

955 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
(c) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass 
greater than 10 kg but not greater than 
18 kg, or by children in a specified 
height range that includes any children 
whose height is greater than 850 mm 
but not greater than 1100 mm, is tested 
with a 12-month-old test dummy con-
forming to part 572 subpart R, and a 3- 
year-old test dummy conforming to 
part 572 subpart P and S7.2, provided, 
however, that the 12-month-old dummy 
is not used to test a booster seat. 
(d) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass 
greater than 18 kg (40 lb) but not great-
er than 22.7 (50 lb), or by children in a 
specified height range that includes 
any children whose height is greater 
than 1100 mm but not greater than 1250 
mm is tested with a 49 CFR part 572, 
subpart N dummy (Hybrid III 6-year- 
old dummy). 
(e) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass 
greater than 22.7 kg (50 lb) but not 
greater than 30 kg (65 lb) or by children 
in a specified height range that in-
cludes any children whose height is 
greater than 1100 mm but not greater 
than 1250 mm is tested with a 49 CFR 
part 572, subpart N dummy (Hybrid III 
6-year-old dummy) and with a part 572, 
subpart S dummy (Hybrid III 6-year-old 
weighted dummy). 
(f) A child restraint that is rec-
ommended by its manufacturer in ac-
cordance with S5.5 for use either by 
children in a specified mass range that 
includes any children having a mass 
greater than 30 kg (65 lb) or by children 
in a specified height range that in-
cludes any children whose height is 
greater than 1250 mm is tested with a 
49 CFR part 572, subpart T dummy (Hy-
brid III 10-year-old dummy). 
S7.1.3 Voluntary use of alternative 
dummies. At the manufacturer’s option 
(with said option irrevocably selected 
prior to, or at the time of, certification 
of the restraint), when this section 
specifies use of the 49 CFR part 572, 
subpart 
N 
(Hybrid 
III 
6-year-old 
dummy) test dummy, the test dummy 
specified in 49 CFR part 572, subpart I 
(Hybrid II 6-year-old dummy) may be 
used in place of the subpart N test 
dummy. 
S8
Requirements, test conditions, and 
procedures for child restraint systems 
manufactured for use in aircraft. Each 
child restraint system manufactured 
for use in both motor vehicles and air-
craft must comply with all of the appli-
cable requirements specified in Section 
S5 and with the additional require-
ments specified in S8.1 and S8.2. 
S8.1
Installation 
instructions. 
Each 
child restraint system manufactured 
for use in aircraft shall be accompanied 
by printed instructions in English that 
provide a step-by-step procedure, in-
cluding diagrams, for installing the 
system in aircraft passenger seats, se-
curing a child in the system when it is 
installed in aircraft, and adjusting the 
system to fit the child. 
S8.2
Inversion test. When tested in 
accordance with S8.2.1 through S8.2.5, 
each child restraint system manufac-
tured for use in aircraft shall meet the 
requirements of S8.2.1 through S8.2.6. 
The manufacturer may, at its option, 
use any seat which is a representative 
aircraft passenger seat within the 
meaning of S4. Each system shall meet 
the requirements at each of the re-
straint’s seat back angle adjustment 
positions and restraint belt routing po-
sitions, when the restraint is oriented 
in the direction recommended by the 
manufacturer 
(e.g., 
facing 
forward, 
rearward or laterally) pursuant to S8.1, 
and tested with the test dummy speci-
fied in S7. If the manufacturer rec-
ommendations do not include instruc-
tions for orienting the restraint in air-
craft when the restraint seat back 
angle is adjusted to any position, posi-
tion the restraint on the aircraft seat 
by following the instructions (provided 
in accordance with S5.6) for orienting 
the restraint in motor vehicles. 
S8.2.1
A standard seat assembly con-
sisting of a representative aircraft pas-
senger seat shall be positioned and ad-
justed so that its horizontal and 
vertical orientation and its seat back 


## Page 27

956 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
angle are the same as shown in Figure 
6. 
S8.2.2
The child restraint system 
shall be attached to the representative 
aircraft passenger seat using, at the 
manufacturer’s option, any Federal 
Aviation Administration approved air-
craft safety belt, according to the re-
straint manufacturer’s instructions for 
attaching the restraint to an aircraft 
seat. 
No 
supplementary 
anchorage 
belts or tether straps may be attached; 
however, Federal Aviation Administra-
tion approved safety belt extensions 
may be used. 
S8.2.3
In accordance with S10, place 
in the child restraint any dummy spec-
ified in S7 for testing systems for use 
by children of the heights and weights 
for which the system is recommended 
in accordance with S5.5 and S8.1. 
S8.2.4
If provided, shoulder and pel-
vic belts that directly restrain the 
dummy shall be adjusted in accordance 
with S6.1.2. 
S8.2.5
The combination of represent-
ative aircraft passenger seat, child re-
straint, and test dummy shall be ro-
tated forward around a horizontal axis 
which is contained in the median 
transverse vertical plane of the seating 
surface portion of the aircraft seat and 
is located 25 mm below the bottom of 
the seat frame, at a speed of 35 to 45 de-
grees per second, to an angle of 180 de-
grees. The rotation shall be stopped 
when it reaches that angle and the seat 
shall be held in this position for three 
seconds. The child restraint shall not 
fall out of the aircraft safety belt nor 
shall the test dummy fall out of the 
child restraint at any time during the 
rotation or the three second period. 
The specified rate of rotation shall be 
attained in not less than one half sec-
ond and not more than one second, and 
the rotating combination shall be 
brought to a stop in not less than one 
half second and not more than one sec-
ond. 
S8.2.6
Repeat 
the 
procedures 
set 
forth in S8.2.1 through S8.2.4. The com-
bination of the representative aircraft 
passenger seat, child restraint, and test 
dummy 
shall 
be 
rotated 
sideways 
around a horizontal axis which is con-
tained in the median longitudinal 
vertical plane of the seating surface 
portion of the aircraft seat and is lo-
cated 25 mm below the bottom of the 
seat frame, at a speed of 35 to 45 de-
grees per second, to an angle of 180 de-
grees. The rotation shall be stopped 
when it reaches that angle and the seat 
shall be held in this position for three 
seconds. The child restraint shall not 
fall out of the aircraft safety belt nor 
shall the test dummy fall out of the 
child restraint at any time during the 
rotation or the three second period. 
The specified rate of rotation shall be 
attained in not less than one half sec-
ond and not more than one second, and 
the rotating combination shall be 
brought to a stop in not less than one 
half second and not more than one sec-
ond. 
S9
Dummy clothing and preparation. 
S9.1
Type of clothing. 
(a) Newborn dummy. When used in 
testing 
under 
this 
standard, 
the 
dummy is unclothed. 
(b) [Reserved] 
(c) 12-month-old dummy (49 CFR part 
572, subpart R). When used in testing 
under this standard, the dummy speci-
fied in 49 CFR part 572, subparts R, is 
clothed in a cotton-polyester based 
tight fitting sweat shirt with long 
sleeves and ankle long pants whose 
combined weight is not more than 0.25 
kg. 
(d) Hybrid II three-year-old and Hybrid 
II six-year-old dummies (49 CFR part 572, 
subparts C and I). When used in testing 
under this standard, the dummies spec-
ified in 49 CFR part 572, subparts C and 
I, are clothed in thermal knit, waffle- 
weave polyester and cotton underwear 
or equivalent, a size 4 long-sleeved 
shirt (3-year-old dummy) or a size 5 
long-sleeved shirt (6-year-old dummy) 
having a mass of 0.090 kg, a size 4 pair 
of long pants having a mass of 0.090 kg, 
and cut off just far enough above the 
knee to allow the knee target to be 
visible, and size 7M sneakers (3-year- 
old dummy) or size 121⁄2M sneakers (6- 
year-old dummy) with rubber toe caps, 
uppers of dacron and cotton or nylon 
and a total mass of 0.453 kg. 
(e) Hybrid III 3-year-old dummy (49 
CFR part 572, subpart P). When used in 
testing 
under 
this 
standard, 
the 
dummy specified in 49 CFR Part 572, 
Subpart P, is clothed as specified in 
that subpart, except that the shoes are 
children’s size 8 canvas oxford style 


## Page 28

957 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
sneakers weighing not more than 0.26 
kg each. 
(f) Hybrid III 6-year-old dummy (49 
CFR part 572, subpart N) and Hybrid III 
6-year-old weighted dummy (49 CFR part 
572, subpart S), and Hybrid III 10-year- 
old dummy (49 CFR part 572, subpart T). 
When used in testing under this stand-
ard, the dummies specified in 49 CFR 
part 572, subparts N and S, are clothed 
as specified in subpart N and with child 
or youth size 13 M sneakers weighing 
not more than 0.45 kg each. When used 
in testing under this standard, the 
dummy specified in 49 CFR part 572, 
subpart T, is clothed as specified in 
subpart T and with youth size 3 sneak-
ers weighing not more than 0.6 kg each. 
S9.2
Preparing 
clothing. 
Clothing 
other than the shoes is machined- 
washed in 71 °C to 82 °C and machine- 
dried at 49 °C to 60 °C for 30 minutes. 
S9.3
Preparing 
dummies. 
(Subparts 
referenced in this section are of Part 
572 of this chapter.) 
S9.3.1
When using the test dummies 
conforming to part 572 C, I, or K, pre-
pare the dummies as specified in this 
paragraph. Before being used in testing 
under this standard, dummies must be 
conditioned at any ambient tempera-
ture from 19 ° C to 25.5 ° C and at any 
relative humidity from 10 percent to 70 
percent, for at least 4 hours. 
S9.3.2
When using the test dummies 
conforming to part 572 subparts N, P, 
R, S or T, prepare the dummies as spec-
ified in this paragraph. Before being 
used in testing under this standard, 
dummies must be conditioned at any 
ambient temperature from 20.6° to 
22.2°C and at any relative humidity 
from 10 percent to 70 percent, for at 
least 4 hours. 
S10
Positioning the dummy and at-
taching the system belts. 
S10.1
Car 
beds. 
Place 
the 
test 
dummy in the car bed in the supine po-
sition with its midsagittal plane per-
pendicular to the center SORL of the 
standard seat assembly, in the case of 
an add-on car bed, or perpendicular to 
the longitudinal axis of the specific ve-
hicle shell or the specific vehicle, in 
the case of a built-in car bed. Position 
the dummy within the car bed in ac-
cordance with the instructions for 
child positioning that the bed manufac-
turer provided with the bed in accord-
ance with S5.6. 
S10.2
Restraints other than car beds. 
S10.2.1
Newborn 
dummy 
and 
12- 
month-old dummy. Position the test 
dummy according to the instructions 
for child positioning that the manufac-
turer provided with the system under 
S5.6.1 or S5.6.2, while conforming to the 
following: 
(a) [Reserved] 
(b)(1) [Reserved] 
(2) When testing rear-facing child re-
straint systems, place the newborn, or 
12-month-old dummy in the child re-
straint system so that the back of the 
dummy torso contacts the back sup-
port surface of the system. For a child 
restraint system which is equipped 
with a fixed or movable surface de-
scribed in S5.2.2.2 which is being tested 
under the conditions of test configura-
tion II, do not attach any of the child 
restraint belts unless they are an inte-
gral part of the fixed or movable sur-
face. For all other child restraint sys-
tems and for a child restraint system 
with a fixed or movable surface which 
is being tested under the conditions of 
test configuration I, attach all appro-
priate child restraint belts and tighten 
them as specified in S6.1.2. Attach all 
appropriate vehicle belts and tighten 
them as specified in S6.1.2. Position 
each movable surface in accordance 
with the instructions that the manu-
facturer provided under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. 
If the dummy’s head does not remain 
in the proper position, tape it against 
the front of the seat back surface of 
the system by means of a single thick-
ness of 6 mm-wide paper masking tape 
placed across the center of the dum-
my’s face. 
(c)(1)(i) When testing forward-facing 
child restraint systems, extend the 
arms of the 12-month old test dummy 
as far as possible in the upward 
vertical direction. Extend the legs of 
the 12-month-old test dummy as far as 
possible in the forward horizontal di-
rection, with the dummy feet perpen-
dicular to the centerline of the lower 
legs. Using a flat square surface with 
an area of 2,580 square mm, apply a 
force of 178 N, perpendicular to: 
(A) The plane of the back of the 
standard seat assembly, in the case of 
an add-on system, or 


## Page 29

958 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
(B) The back of the vehicle seat in 
the specific vehicle shell or the specific 
vehicle, in the case of a built-in sys-
tem, first against the dummy crotch 
and then at the dummy thorax in the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy. For a 
child restraint system with a fixed or 
movable surface described in S5.2.2.2, 
which is being tested under the condi-
tions of test configuration II, do not 
attach any of the child restraint belts 
unless they are an integral part of the 
fixed or movable surface. For all other 
child restraint systems and for a child 
restraint system with a fixed or mov-
able surface which is being tested 
under the conditions of test configura-
tion I, attach all appropriate child re-
straint belts and tighten them as speci-
fied in S6.1.2. Attach all appropriate 
vehicle belts and tighten them as spec-
ified in S6.1.2. Position each movable 
surface in accordance with the instruc-
tions that the manufacturer provided 
under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. 
(ii) After the steps specified in para-
graph (c)(1)(i) of this section, rotate 
each dummy limb downwards in the 
plane 
parallel 
to 
the 
dummy’s 
midsagittal plane until the limb con-
tacts a surface of the child restraint 
system or the standard seat assembly, 
in the case of an add-on system, or the 
specific vehicle shell or specific vehi-
cle, in the case of a built-in system, as 
appropriate. Position the limbs, if nec-
essary, so that limb placement does 
not inhibit torso or head movement in 
tests conducted under S6. 
(2) When testing rear-facing child re-
straint systems, extend the dummy’s 
arms vertically upwards and then ro-
tate each arm downward toward the 
dummy’s lower body until the arm con-
tacts a surface of the child restraint 
system or the standard seat assembly 
in the case of an add-on child restraint 
system, or the specific vehicle shell or 
the specific vehicle, in the case of a 
built-in child restraint system. Ensure 
that no arm is restrained from move-
ment in other than the downward di-
rection, by any part of the system or 
the belts used to anchor the system to 
the standard seat assembly, the spe-
cific shell, or the specific vehicle. 
S10.2.2
Other 
dummies 
generally. 
When using: (1) the Hybrid III 3-year- 
old (part 572, subpart P), Hybrid II 6- 
year-old (part 572, subpart I), and Hy-
brid III weighted 6-year-old (part 572, 
subpart S) in child restraint systems 
including belt-positioning seats; (2) the 
Hybrid III 6-year-old (part 572, subpart 
N) and the Hybrid III 10-year-old (part 
572, subpart T) in child restraint sys-
tems other than belt-positioning seats, 
position the dummy in accordance with 
S5.6.1 or S5.6.2, while conforming to the 
following: 
(a) Holding the test dummy torso up-
right until it contacts the system’s de-
sign seating surface, place the test 
dummy in the seated position within 
the system with the midsagittal plane 
of the test dummy head— 
(1) Coincident with the center SORL 
of the standard seating assembly, in 
the case of the add-on child restraint 
system, or 
(2) Vertical and parallel to the longi-
tudinal center line of the specific vehi-
cle, in the case of a built-in child re-
straint system. 
(b) Extend the arms of the test 
dummy as far as possible in the upward 
vertical direction. Extend the legs of 
the dummy as far as possible in the for-
ward horizontal direction, with the 
dummy feet perpendicular to the cen-
ter line of the lower legs. 
(c) Using a flat square surface with 
an area of 2580 square millimeters, 
apply a force of 178 N, perpendicular to: 
(1) The plane of the back of the 
standard seat assembly, in the case of 
an add-on system, or 
(2) The back of the vehicle seat in the 
specific vehicle shell or the specific ve-
hicle, in the case of a built-in system, 
first against the dummy crotch and 
then at the dummy thorax in the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy. For a 
child restraint system with a fixed or 
movable surface described in S5.2.2.2, 
which is being tested under the condi-
tions of test configuration II, do not 
attach any of the child restraint belts 
unless they are an integral part of the 
fixed or movable surface. For all other 
child restraint systems and for a child 
restraint system with a fixed or mov-
able surface which is being tested 
under the conditions of test configura-
tion I, attach all appropriate child re-
straint belts and tighten them as speci-
fied in S6.1.2. Attach all appropriate 


## Page 30

959 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
vehicle belts and tighten them as spec-
ified in S6.1.2. Position each movable 
surface in accordance with the instruc-
tions that the manufacturer provided 
under S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. 
(d) After the steps specified in para-
graph (c) of this section, rotate each 
dummy limb downwards in the plane 
parallel to the dummy’s midsagittal 
plane until the limb contacts a surface 
of the child restraint system or the 
standard seat assembly, in the case of 
an add-on system, or the specific vehi-
cle shell or specific vehicle, in the case 
of a built-in system, as appropriate. 
Position the limbs, if necessary, so 
that limb placement does not inhibit 
torso or head movement in tests con-
ducted under S6. 
S10.2.3
Hybrid III 6-year-old in belt- 
positioning seats, Hybrid III weighted 6- 
year-old in belt-positioning seats, and Hy-
brid III 10-year-old in belt-positioning 
seats. When using the Hybrid III 6-year- 
old (part 572, subpart N), the Hybrid III 
weighted 6-year-old (part 572, subpart 
S), or the Hybrid III 10-year-old (part 
572, subpart T) in belt-positioning 
seats, position the dummy in accord-
ance with S5.6.1 or S5.6.2, while con-
forming to the following: 
(a) Prepare the dummy. (1) When using 
the Hybrid III 10-year-old dummy, pre-
pare the dummy according to the fol-
lowing: 
(i) Set the dummy’s neck angle at 
the SP–16 setting (‘‘SP’’ means stand-
ard procedure), see Figure 14a. 
(ii) Set the dummy’s lumbar angle at 
the SP–12 setting, see Figure 14b. This 
is done by aligning the notch on the 
lumbar adjustment bracket with the 
SP–12 notch on the lumbar attach-
ment. 
(iii) Adjust the limb joints to 1–2 g 
while the torso is in the seated posi-
tion. 
(iv) Apply double-sided tape to the 
surface of a lap shield, which is a piece 
of translucent silicone rubber 3 mm 
±0.5 mm thick (50A durometer) cut to 
the dimensions specified in Figure 13. 
Place the lap shield on the pelvis of the 
dummy. Align the top of the lap shield 
with the superior anterior edge of the 
pelvis skin. Attach the lap shield to 
the dummy. 
(v) Apply double-sided tape to one 
side of a pelvis positioning pad, which 
is a 125 × 95 × 20 mm (±2 mm tolerance 
in each of the three dimensions) piece 
of closed cell (Type 2 according to 
ASTM D–1056–07) (incorporated by ref-
erence; see § 571.5) foam or rubber cut 
from material having the following 
specifications: compression resistance 
between 9 to 17 psi in a compression-de-
flection test specified in ASTM D–1056– 
07 
(incorporated 
by 
reference; 
see 
§ 571.5), and a density of 7 to 12.5 lb/ft3. 
Center the long axis of the pad on the 
posterior of the pelvis with the top 
edge of the foam aligned with the supe-
rior edge of the pelvis skin. Attach the 
pelvis positioning pad to the dummy. 
(vi) Dress and prepare the dummy ac-
cording to S9. 
(2) When using the Hybrid III 6-year- 
old dummy, prepare the dummy ac-
cording to the following: 
(i) If necessary, adjust the limb joints 
to 1–2 g while the torso is in the seated 
position. 
(ii) Apply double-sided tape to the 
surface of a lap shield, which is a piece 
of translucent silicone rubber 3 mm 
thick ±0.5 mm thick (50A durometer) 
cut to the dimensions specified in Fig-
ure 13. Place the lap shield on the pel-
vis of the dummy. Align the top of the 
lap shield with the superior anterior 
edge of the pelvis skin. Attach the lap 
shield to the dummy. 
(iii) Dress and prepare the dummy ac-
cording to S9. 
(b) Position the belt-positioning seat 
according to S6.1.2(a)(1)(ii). 
(c) Position the dummy in the belt- 
positioning seat. 
(1) Place the dummy on the seat 
cushion of the belt-positioning seat 
such that the plane of the posterior 
pelvis is parallel to the plane of the 
seat back of the belt-positioning seat, 
standard seat assembly or vehicle seat 
back, but not touching. Pick up and 
move the dummy rearward, maintain-
ing the parallel planes, until the pelvis 
positioning pad, if used, or the pelvis or 
back of the dummy and the back of the 
belt-positioning seat or the back of the 
standard seat assembly, are in minimal 
contact. 
(2) Straighten and align the arm seg-
ments horizontally, then rotate the 
arms upward at the shoulder as far as 
possible without contacting the belt- 
positioning seat. Straighten and align 


## Page 31

960 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
the legs horizontally and extend the 
lower legs as far as possible in the for-
ward horizontal direction, with the feet 
perpendicular to the centerline of the 
lower legs. 
(3) Using a flat square surface with 
an area of 2580 square millimeters, 
apply a force of 178 N (40 lb) first 
against the dummy crotch and then 
against the dummy thorax on the 
midsagittal plane of the dummy, per-
pendicular to: 
(i) The plane of the back of the belt- 
positioning seat, in the case of a belt- 
positioning seat with a back, or, 
(ii) The plane of the back of the 
standard seat assembly or vehicle seat, 
in the case of a backless belt-posi-
tioning seat or built-in booster. 
(4) Rotate the arms of the dummy 
down so that they are perpendicular to 
the torso. 
(5) Bend the knees until the back of 
the lower legs are in minimal contact 
with the belt-positioning seat, stand-
ard seat assembly or vehicle seat. Posi-
tion the legs such that the outer edges 
of the knees are 180 ±10 mm apart for 
the Hybrid III 6-year-old dummy and 
220 ±10 mm apart for the Hybrid III 10- 
year-old dummy. Position the feet such 
that the soles are perpendicular to the 
centerline of the lower legs. In the case 
of a belt-positioning seat with a back, 
adjust the dummy so that the shoul-
ders are parallel to a line connecting 
the shoulder belt guides. This can be 
accomplished by leaning the torso such 
that the dummy’s head and neck are 
centered on the backrest components 
of the belt-positioning seat. In case of 
a backless child restraint, adjust the 
dummy’s torso so that the head is as 
close to laterally level as possible. 
(d) Apply the belt. Attach the vehicle 
belts and tighten them as specified in 
S6.1.2. 
(e) Dummy final positioning. (1) Check 
the leg, feet, thorax and head positions 
and make any necessary adjustments 
to achieve the positions described in 
S10.2.3(c)(5). Position the legs, if nec-
essary, so that the leg placement does 
not inhibit thorax movement in tests 
conducted under S6. 
(2) Rotate each dummy arm down-
wards in the plane parallel to the dum-
my’s midsagittal plane until the arm 
contacts a surface of the child re-
straint system or the standard seat as-
sembly, in the case of an add-on sys-
tem, or the specific vehicle shell or 
specific vehicle, in the case of a built- 
in system, as appropriate. Position the 
arms, if necessary, so that the arm 
placement does not inhibit torso or 
head movement in tests conducted 
under S6. 


## Page 32

961 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 33

962 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 34

963 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 35

964 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 36

965 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 37

966 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 38

967 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 39

968 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 40

969 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 41

970 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 42

971 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 43

972 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 44

973 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 45

974 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 
FIGURE 9A–2 TO § 571.213 


## Page 46

975 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 
FIGURE 9B–2 TO § 571.213 


## Page 47

976 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 48

977 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213 


## Page 49

978 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.213 


## Page 50

979 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.213a 
[44 FR 72147, Dec. 13, 1979] 
EDITORIAL NOTE: For FEDERAL REGISTER citations affecting § 571.213, see the List of CFR 
Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at 
www.govinfo.gov. 
§ 571.213a
Standard No. 213a; Child re-
straint systems—side impact protec-
tion. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies side 
impact protection requirements for 
child restraint systems recommended 
for children in a weight range that in-
cludes weights up to 18 kilograms (40 
pounds) or by children in a height 
range that includes heights up to 1100 
millimeters (43 inches). 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce the number of 
children killed or injured in motor ve-
hicle side impacts. Each child restraint 
system subject to this standard shall 


