## Page 1

1210 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 
degrees 
Celsius 
(800 
degrees 
Fahr-
enheit) as determined by the average of 
the two thermocouples recording the 
highest temperatures over a 60 second 
interval: 
1
2
T
T
T
T
High 1
High 2
High 1
High 2
+
⎛
⎝⎜
⎞
⎠⎟
+
+
⎛
⎝⎜
⎞
⎠⎟
⎡
⎣
⎢
⎢
⎤
⎦
⎥
⎥
≥
2
2
 
 430 C
 time 30 sec
 time 60 sec
o
@
@
If the pressure relief device releases 
before the end of the fifth minute after 
ignition, then the minimum tempera-
ture requirement does not apply. 
S8.3.6
Recording data. Record time, 
temperature, and pressure readings at 
30 second intervals, beginning when the 
fire is ignited and continuing until the 
pressure release device releases. 
S8.3.7
Duration of exposure to fire 
source. The CNG fuel container is ex-
posed to the fire source for 20 minutes 
after ignition or until the pressure re-
lease device releases, whichever period 
is shorter. 
S8.3.8
Number of tests per container. A 
single CNG fuel container is not sub-
jected to more than one bonfire test. 
S8.3.9
Wind velocity. The average 
ambient wind velocity at the CNG fuel 
container during the period specified in 
S8.3.6 of this standard is not to exceed 
2.24 meters/second (5 mph). 
S8.3.10
The average wind velocity at 
the container is any velocity up to and 
including 2.24 meters/second (5 mph). 
[59 FR 49021, Sept. 26, 1994; 59 FR 66776, Dec. 
28, 1994; 60 FR 37843, July 24, 1995; 60 FR 57948, 
Nov. 24, 1995; 61 FR 19204, May 1, 1996; 61 FR 
47089, Sept. 6, 1996; 63 FR 66765, Dec. 3, 1998; 
65 FR 51772, Aug. 25, 2000; 65 FR 64626, Oct. 30, 
2000; 87 FR 7964, Feb. 11, 2022] 
§ 571.305
Standard No. 305; Electric- 
powered vehicles: electrolyte spill-
age and electrical shock protection. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies re-
quirements for limitation of electro-
lyte spillage and retention of electric 
energy storage/conversion devices dur-
ing and after a crash, and protection 
from harmful electric shock during and 
after a crash and during normal vehicle 
operation. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce deaths and inju-
ries during and after a crash that occur 
because of electrolyte spillage from 
electric energy storage devices, intru-
sion of electric energy storage/conver-
sion devices into the occupant com-
partment, and electrical shock, and to 
reduce deaths and injuries during nor-
mal vehicle operation that occur be-
cause of electric shock or driver error. 
S3. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars, and to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles, trucks and buses 
with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less, that 
use electrical propulsion components 
with working voltages more than 60 
volts direct current (VDC) or 30 volts 
alternating current (VAC), and whose 
speed attainable over a distance of 1.6 
km on a paved level surface is more 
than 40 km/h. 
S4. Definitions. 
Automatic disconnect means a device 
that when triggered, conductively sep-
arates a high voltage source from the 
electric power train or the rest of the 
electric power train. 
Charge connector is a conductive de-
vice that, by insertion into a vehicle 
charge inlet, establishes an electrical 
connection of the vehicle to the exter-
nal electric power supply for the pur-
pose of transferring energy and ex-
changing information. 
Connector means a device providing 
mechanical connection and disconnec-
tion of high voltage electrical conduc-
tors to a suitable mating component, 
including its housing. 
Direct contact is the contact of per-
sons with high voltage live parts. 
Electric energy storage device means a 
high voltage source that stores energy 
for vehicle propulsion. This includes, 
but is not limited to, a high voltage 
battery or battery pack, rechargeable 
energy storage device, and capacitor 
module. 
Electric energy storage/conversion de-
vice means a high voltage source that 
stores or converts energy for vehicle 


## Page 2

1211 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 
propulsion. This includes, but is not 
limited to, a high voltage battery or 
battery pack, fuel cell stack, recharge-
able energy storage device, and capac-
itor module. 
Electric energy storage/conversion sys-
tem means an assembly of electrical 
components that stores or converts 
electrical energy for vehicle propul-
sion. This includes, but is not limited 
to, high voltage batteries or battery 
packs, fuel cell stacks, rechargeable 
energy storage systems, capacitor mod-
ules, 
inverters, 
interconnects, 
and 
venting systems. 
Electric power train means an assem-
bly of electrically connected compo-
nents which includes, but is not lim-
ited to, electric energy storage/conver-
sion systems and propulsion systems. 
Electrical chassis means conductive 
parts of the vehicle whose electrical 
potential is taken as reference and 
which are: (1) conductively linked to-
gether, and (2) not high voltage sources 
during normal vehicle operation. 
Electrical isolation of a high voltage 
source in the vehicle means the elec-
trical resistance between the high volt-
age source and any of the vehicle’s 
electrical chassis divided by the work-
ing voltage of the high voltage source. 
Electrical protection barrier is the part 
providing protection against direct 
contact with high voltage live parts 
from any direction of access. 
Exposed conductive part is the conduc-
tive part that can be touched under the 
provisions of the IPXXB protection de-
gree and that is not normally ener-
gized, but that can become electrically 
energized under isolation fault condi-
tions. This includes parts under a 
cover, if the cover can be removed 
without using tools. 
External electric power supply is a 
power supply external to the vehicle 
that provides electric power to charge 
the electric energy storage device in 
the vehicle through the charge con-
nector. 
Fuel cell system is a system con-
taining the fuel cell stack(s), air proc-
essing system, fuel flow control sys-
tem, exhaust system, thermal manage-
ment system, and water management 
system. 
High voltage live part means a live 
part of a high voltage source. 
High voltage source means any elec-
tric component which is contained in 
the 
electric 
power 
train 
or 
conductively connected to the electric 
power train and has a working voltage 
greater than 30 VAC or 60 VDC. 
Indirect contact is the contact of per-
sons with exposed conductive parts. 
Live part is a conductive part of the 
vehicle that is electrically energized 
under normal vehicle operation. 
Luggage compartment is the space in 
the vehicle for luggage accommoda-
tion, separated from the passenger 
compartment by the front or rear bulk-
head and bounded by a roof, hood or 
trunk lid, floor, and side walls, as well 
as by electrical protection barriers pro-
vided for protecting the occupants 
from direct contact with high voltage 
live parts. 
Passenger compartment is the space for 
occupant 
accommodation 
that 
is 
bounded by the roof, floor, side walls, 
doors, outside glazing, front bulkhead 
and rear bulkhead or rear gate, as well 
as electrical protection barriers pro-
vided for protecting the occupants 
from direct contact with high voltage 
live parts. 
Possible active driving mode is the ve-
hicle mode when application of pres-
sure to the accelerator pedal (or acti-
vation of an equivalent control) or re-
lease of the brake system causes the 
electric power train to move the vehi-
cle. 
Propulsion system means an assembly 
of electric or electro-mechanical com-
ponents or circuits that propel the ve-
hicle using the energy that is supplied 
by a high voltage source. This includes, 
but is not limited to, electric motors, 
inverters/converters, 
and 
electronic 
controllers. 
Protection degree IPXXB is protection 
from contact with high voltage live 
parts. It is tested by probing electrical 
protection barriers with the jointed 
test finger probe, IPXXB, in Figure 7b. 
Protection degree IPXXD is protection 
from contact with high voltage live 
parts. It is tested by probing electrical 
protection barriers with the test wire 
probe, IPXXD, in Figure 7a. 
Service disconnect is the device for de-
activation of an electrical circuit when 
conducting checks and services of the 
vehicle electrical propulsion system. 


## Page 3

1212 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 
VAC means volts of alternating cur-
rent (AC) expressed using the root 
mean square value. 
VDC means volts of direct current 
(DC). 
Vehicle charge inlet is the device on 
the electric vehicle into which the 
charge connector is inserted for the 
purpose of transferring energy and ex-
changing information from an external 
electric power supply. 
Working Voltage means the highest 
root mean square voltage of the volt-
age source, which may occur across its 
terminals or between its terminals and 
any conductive parts in open circuit 
conditions or under normal operating 
conditions. 
S5.
General requirements. Each vehi-
cle to which this standard applies, 
must meet the requirements in S5.1, 
S5.2, and S5.3 when tested according to 
S6 under the conditions of S7. 
S5.1
Electrolyte spillage from propul-
sion batteries. Not more than 5.0 liters 
of electrolyte from propulsion bat-
teries shall spill outside the passenger 
compartment, and no visible trace of 
electrolyte shall spill into the pas-
senger compartment. Spillage is meas-
ured from the time the vehicle ceases 
motion after a barrier impact test 
until 
30 
minutes 
thereafter, 
and 
throughout any static rollover after a 
barrier impact test. 
S5.2
Electric energy storage/conversion 
device retention. During and after each 
test specified in S6 of this standard: 
(a) Electric energy storage/conver-
sion devices shall remain attached to 
the vehicle by at least one component 
anchorage, bracket, or any structure 
that transfers loads from the device to 
the vehicle structure, and 
(b) Electric energy storage/conver-
sion devices located outside the occu-
pant compartment shall not enter the 
occupant compartment. 
S5.3 Electrical safety. After each test 
specified in S6 of this standard, each 
high voltage source in a vehicle must 
meet one of the following require-
ments: 
electrical 
isolation 
require-
ments of subparagraph (a), the voltage 
level requirements of subparagraph (b), 
or the physical barrier protection re-
quirements of subparagraph (c). 
(a) The electrical isolation of the 
high voltage source, determined in ac-
cordance with the procedure specified 
in S7.6, must be greater than or equal 
to one of the following: 
(1) 500 ohms/volt for an AC high volt-
age source; or 
(2) 100 ohms/volt for an AC high volt-
age source if it is conductively con-
nected to a DC high voltage source, but 
only if the AC high voltage source 
meets the physical barrier protection 
requirements specified in S5.3(c)(1) and 
S5.3(c)(2); or 
(3) 100 ohms/volt for a DC high volt-
age source. 
(b) The voltages V1, V2, and Vb of the 
high voltage source, measured accord-
ing to the procedure specified in S7.7, 
must be less than or equal to 30 VAC 
for AC components or 60 VDC for DC 
components. 
(c) Protection against electric shock 
by direct and indirect contact (physical 
barrier 
protection) 
shall 
be 
dem-
onstrated by meeting the following 
three conditions: 
(1) The high voltage source (AC or 
DC) 
meets 
the 
protection 
degree 
IPXXB when tested according to the 
procedure specified in S9.1 using the 
IPXXB test probe shown in Figures 7a 
and 7b; 
(2) The resistance between exposed 
conductive parts of the electrical pro-
tection barrier of the high voltage 
source and the electrical chassis is less 
than 0.1 ohms when tested according to 
the procedures specified in S9.2. In ad-
dition, the resistance between an ex-
posed conductive part of the electrical 
protection barrier of the high voltage 
source and any other simultaneously 
reachable exposed conductive parts of 
electrical protection barriers within 2.5 
meters of it must be less than 0.2 ohms 
when tested using the test procedures 
specified in S9.2; and 
(3) The voltage between exposed con-
ductive parts of the electrical protec-
tion barrier of the high voltage source 
and the electrical chassis is less than 
or equal to 30 VAC or 60 VDC as meas-
ured in accordance with S9.3. In addi-
tion, the voltage between an exposed 
conductive part of the electrical pro-
tection barrier of the high voltage 
source and any other simultaneously 
reachable exposed conductive parts of 
electrical protection barriers within 2.5 
meters of it must be less than or equal 


## Page 4

1213 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 
to 30 VAC or 60 VDC as measured in ac-
cordance with S9.3. 
S5.4 Electrical safety during normal ve-
hicle operation. 
S5.4.1 Protection against direct contact. 
S5.4.1.1 Marking. The symbol shown 
in Figure 6 shall be present on or near 
electric energy storage devices. The 
symbol in Figure 6 shall also be visible 
on electrical protection barriers which, 
when removed, expose live parts of 
high voltage sources. The symbol shall 
be yellow and the bordering and the 
arrow shall be black. 
S5.4.1.1.1 The marking is not required 
for electrical protection barriers that 
cannot be physically accessed, opened, 
or removed without the use of tools. 
Markings are not required for elec-
trical connectors or the vehicle charge 
inlet. 
S5.4.1.2 High voltage cables. Cables for 
high voltage sources which are not lo-
cated within electrical protection bar-
riers shall be identified by having an 
outer covering with the color orange. 
S5.4.1.3 Service disconnect. For a serv-
ice disconnect which can be opened, 
disassembled, 
or 
removed 
without 
tools, protection degree IPXXB shall be 
provided when tested under procedures 
specified in S9.1 using the IPXXB test 
probe shown in Figures 7a and 7b. 
S5.4.1.4 Protection degree of high volt-
age live parts. 
(a) Protection degree IPXXD shall be 
provided for high voltage live parts in-
side the passenger or luggage compart-
ment when tested according to the pro-
cedures specified in S9.1 using the 
IPXXD test probe shown in Figure 7a. 
(b) Protection degree IPXXB shall be 
provided for high voltage live parts in 
areas other than the passenger or lug-
gage compartment when tested accord-
ing to the procedures specified in S9.1 
using the IPXXB test probe shown in 
Figures 7a and 7b. 
S5.4.1.5 Connectors. All connectors 
shall provide direct contact protection 
by: 
(a) Meeting the requirements speci-
fied in S5.4.1.4 when the connector is 
connected to its corresponding mating 
component; and, 
(b) If a connector can be separated 
from its mating component without 
the use of a tool, meeting at least one 
of the following conditions from (b)(1), 
(2), or (3) of this section: 
(1) The connector meets the require-
ments of S5.4.1.4 when separated from 
its mating component; 
(2) The voltage of the live parts be-
comes less than or equal to 60 VDC or 
30 VAC within one second after the 
connector is separated from its mating 
component; or, 
(3) The connector requires at least 
two distinct actions to separate from 
its mating component and there are 
other components that must be re-
moved in order to separate the con-
nector from its mating component and 
these other components cannot be re-
moved without the use of tools. 
S5.4.1.6 Vehicle charge inlet. Direct 
contact protection for a vehicle charge 
inlet shall be provided by meeting the 
requirements specified in S5.4.1.4 when 
the charge connector is connected to 
the vehicle inlet and by meeting at 
least one of the requirements of sub-
paragraphs (a) or (b). 
(a) The vehicle charge inlet meets 
the requirements of S5.4.1.4 when the 
charge connector is not connected to 
it; or 
(b) The voltage of the high voltage 
live parts becomes equal to or less than 
60 VDC or equal to or less than 30 VAC 
within 1 second after the charge con-
nector is separated from the vehicle 
charge inlet. 
S5.4.2 Protection against indirect con-
tact. 
S5.4.2.1 The resistance between all 
exposed conductive parts of electrical 
protection barriers and the electrical 
chassis shall be less than 0.1 ohms 
when tested according to the proce-
dures specified in S9.2. 
S5.4.2.2 The resistance between any 
two simultaneously reachable exposed 
conductive parts of the electrical pro-
tection barriers that are less than 2.5 
meters from each other shall be less 
than 0.2 ohms when tested according to 
the procedures specified in S9.2. 
S5.4.3 Electrical isolation. 
S5.4.3.1 Electrical isolation of AC and 
DC high voltage sources. The electrical 
isolation of a high voltage source, de-
termined in accordance with the proce-
dure specified in S7.6 must be greater 
than or equal to one of the following: 


## Page 5

1214 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 
(a) 500 ohms/volt for an AC high volt-
age source; 
(b) 100 ohms/volt for an AC high volt-
age source if it is conductively con-
nected to a DC high voltage source, but 
only if the AC high voltage source 
meets the requirements for protection 
against direct contact in S5.4.1.4 and 
the protection from indirect contact in 
S5.4.2; or 
(c) 100 ohms/volt for a DC high volt-
age source. 
S5.4.3.2 
Exclusion 
of 
high 
voltage 
sources from electrical isolation require-
ments. A high voltage source that is 
conductively connected to an electric 
component which is conductively con-
nected to the electrical chassis and has 
a working voltage less than or equal to 
60 VDC, is not required to meet the 
electrical isolation requirements in 
S5.4.3.1 if the voltage between the high 
voltage source and the electrical chas-
sis is less than or equal to 30 VAC or 60 
VDC. 
S5.4.3.3 Electrical isolation of high volt-
age sources for charging the electric en-
ergy storage device. For the vehicle 
charge 
inlet 
intended 
to 
be 
conductively connected to the AC ex-
ternal electric power supply, the elec-
tric isolation between the electrical 
chassis and the high voltage sources 
that are conductively connected to the 
vehicle charge inlet during charging of 
the electric energy storage device shall 
be greater than or equal to 500 ohms/ 
volt when the charge connector is dis-
connected. The electrical isolation is 
measured at the high voltage live parts 
of the vehicle charge inlet and deter-
mined in accordance with the proce-
dure specified in S7.6. During the meas-
urement, the rechargeable electric en-
ergy storage system may be discon-
nected. 
S5.4.4 Electrical isolation monitoring. 
DC high voltage sources of vehicles 
with a fuel cell system shall be mon-
itored by an electrical isolation moni-
toring system that displays a warning 
for loss of isolation when tested ac-
cording to S8. The system must mon-
itor its own readiness and the warning 
display must be visible to the driver 
seated in the driver’s designated seat-
ing position. 
S5.4.5 Electric shock protection during 
charging. For motor vehicles with an 
electric energy storage device that can 
be charged through a conductive con-
nection with a grounded external elec-
tric power supply, a device to enable 
conductive connection of the electrical 
chassis to the earth ground shall be 
provided. This device shall enable con-
nection to the earth ground before ex-
terior voltage is applied to the vehicle 
and retain the connection until after 
the exterior voltage is removed from 
the vehicle. 
S5.4.6 Mitigating driver error. 
S5.4.6.1 Indicator of possible active driv-
ing mode. At least a momentary indica-
tion shall be given to the driver each 
time the vehicle is first placed in pos-
sible active driving mode after manual 
activation of the propulsion system. 
This requirement does not apply under 
conditions where an internal combus-
tion engine provides directly or indi-
rectly the vehicle’s propulsion power 
when the vehicle is first placed in a 
possible active driving mode after man-
ual activation of the propulsion sys-
tem. 
S5.4.6.2 Indicator of possible active driv-
ing mode when leaving the vehicle. When 
leaving the vehicle, the driver shall be 
informed by an audible or visual signal 
if the vehicle is still in the possible ac-
tive driving mode. 
S5.4.6.3 Prevent drive-away. If the on- 
board electric energy storage device 
can be externally charged, vehicle 
movement of more than 150 mm by its 
own propulsion system shall not be 
possible as long as the charge con-
nector of the external electric power 
supply is physically connected to the 
vehicle charge inlet in a manner that 
would permit charging of the electric 
energy storage device. 
S6. Test requirements. Each vehicle to 
which this standard applies, under the 
conditions of S7, must be capable of 
meeting the requirements of any appli-
cable single barrier crash/static roll-
over test sequence, without alteration 
of the vehicle during the test sequence. 
A particular vehicle need not meet fur-
ther test requirements after having 
been subjected to a single barrier 
crash/static rollover test sequence. 
S6.1
Frontal barrier crash. The vehi-
cle must meet the requirements of S5.1, 
S5.2 and S5.3 when it is traveling longi-
tudinally forward at any speed, up to 


## Page 6

1215 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 
and including 48 km/h, and impacts a 
fixed collision barrier that is perpen-
dicular to the line of travel of the vehi-
cle, or at any angle up to 30 degrees in 
either direction from the perpendicular 
to the line of travel of the vehicle. 
S6.2
Rear moving barrier impact. The 
vehicle must meet the requirements of 
S5.1, S5.2, and S5.3 when it is impacted 
from the rear by a barrier that con-
forms to S7.3(b) of 571.301 of this chap-
ter and that is moving at any speed up 
to and including 80 km/h (50 mph) with 
dummies in accordance with S6.2 of 
571.301 of this chapter. 
S6.3
Side moving deformable barrier 
impact. The vehicle must meet the re-
quirements of S5.1, S5.2 and S5.3 when 
it is impacted from the side by a bar-
rier that conforms to part 587 of this 
chapter that is moving at any speed up 
to and including 54 km/h, with the ap-
propriate 49 CFR part 572 test dummies 
specified in 571.214 of this chapter. 
S6.4 Post-impact test static rollover. 
The vehicle must meet the require-
ments of S5.1, S5.2, and S5.3, after 
being rotated on its longitudinal axis 
to each successive increment of 90 de-
grees after each impact test specified 
in S6.1, S6.2, and S6.3. 
S7. Test conditions. When the vehicle 
is tested according to S6, the require-
ments of S5.1 through S5.3 must be met 
under the conditions specified in S7.1 
through S7.7. All measurements for 
calculating voltage(s) and electrical 
isolation are made after a minimum of 
5 seconds after the vehicle comes to 
rest in tests specified in S6. Where a 
range is specified, the vehicle must be 
capable of meeting the requirements at 
all points within the range. 
S7.1
Electric energy storage device 
state-of-charge. 
The 
electric 
energy 
storage device shall be at the state-of- 
charge specified in either subparagraph 
(a), (b), or (c): 
(a) At the maximum state-of-charge 
in accordance with the vehicle manu-
facturer’s recommended charging pro-
cedures, as stated in the vehicle own-
er’s manual or on a label that is perma-
nently affixed to the vehicle; or 
(b) If the manufacturer has made no 
recommendation for charging proce-
dures in the owner’s manual or on a 
label permanently affixed to the vehi-
cle, at a state-of-charge of not less 
than 95 percent of the maximum capac-
ity of the electric energy storage de-
vice; or 
(c) If the electric energy storage de-
vice(s) is/are rechargeable only by an 
energy source on the vehicle, at any 
state-of-charge within the normal oper-
ating voltage defined by the vehicle 
manufacturer. 
S7.2
Vehicle conditions. The switch or 
device that provides power from the 
electric energy storage/conversion sys-
tem to the propulsion system is in the 
activated position or the ready-to-drive 
position. 
S7.2.1 The parking brake is dis-
engaged and the transmission, if any, 
is in the neutral position. In a test con-
ducted under S6.3, the parking brake is 
set. 
S7.2.2 Tires are inflated to the manu-
facturer’s specifications. 
S7.2.3 The vehicle, including test de-
vices and instrumentation, is loaded as 
follows: 
(a) A passenger car is loaded to its 
unloaded vehicle weight plus its rated 
cargo and luggage capacity weight, se-
cured in the luggage area, plus the nec-
essary test dummies as specified in S6, 
restrained only by means that are in-
stalled in the vehicle for protection at 
its seating position. 
(b) A multipurpose passenger vehicle, 
truck, or bus with a GVWR of 4536 kg 
or less is loaded to its unloaded vehicle 
weight plus the necessary dummies, as 
specified in S6, plus 136 kg or its rated 
cargo and luggage capacity weight, 
whichever is less. Each dummy is re-
strained only by means that are in-
stalled in the vehicle for protection at 
its seating position. 
S7.3 Static rollover test conditions. In 
addition to the conditions of S7.1 and 
S7.2, the conditions of S7.4 of Sec. 
571.301 of this chapter apply to the con-
duct of static rollover tests specified in 
S6.4. 
S7.4
Rear moving barrier impact test 
conditions. In addition to the conditions 
of S7.1 and S7.2, the conditions of 
S7.3(b) and S7.6 of 571.301 of this chap-
ter apply to the conducting of the rear 
moving deformable barrier impact test 
specified in S6.2. 
S7.5
Side moving deformable barrier 
impact test conditions. In addition to the 


## Page 7

1216 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 
conditions of S7.1 and S7.2, the condi-
tions of S8.9, S8.10, and S8.11 of 571.214 
of this chapter apply to the conduct of 
the side moving deformable barrier im-
pact test specified in S6.3. 
S7.6
Electrical isolation test procedure. 
In addition to the conditions of S7.1 
and S7.2, the conditions in S7.6.1 
through S7.6.7 apply to the measuring 
of 
electrical 
isolation 
specified 
in 
S5.3(a). 
S7.6.1
Prior to any barrier impact 
test, the energy storage/conversion sys-
tem is connected to the vehicle’s pro-
pulsion system, and the vehicle igni-
tion is in the ‘‘on’’ (propulsion system 
energized) position. Bypass any devices 
or systems that do not allow the pro-
pulsion system to be energized at the 
time of impact when the vehicle igni-
tion is on and the vehicle is in neutral. 
For a high voltage source that has an 
automatic disconnect that is phys-
ically contained within itself, the elec-
trical isolation measurement after the 
test is made from the side of the auto-
matic disconnect connected to the 
electric power train or to the rest of 
the electric power train if the high 
voltage source is a component con-
tained in the power train. For a high 
voltage source that has an automatic 
disconnect that is not physically con-
tained within itself, the electrical iso-
lation measurement after the test is 
made from both the high voltage 
source side of the automatic disconnect 
and from the side of the automatic dis-
connect 
connected 
to 
the 
electric 
power train or to the rest of the elec-
tric power train if the high voltage 
source is a component contained in the 
power train. 
S7.6.2
The voltmeter used in this 
test has an internal resistance of at 
least 10 MW. 
S7.6.3
The voltage(s) is/are measured 
as shown in Figure 1 and the high volt-
age source voltage(s) (Vb) is/are re-
corded. Before any vehicle impact test, 
Vb is equal to or greater than the 
nominal operating voltage as specified 
by the vehicle manufacturer. 
S7.6.4
The voltage V1 between the 
negative side of the high voltage source 
and the electrical chassis is measured 
as shown in Figure 2. 
S7.6.5
The voltage V2 between the 
positive side of the high voltage source 
and the electrical chassis is measured 
as shown in Figure 3. 
S7.6.6
If V1 is greater than or equal 
to V2, insert a known resistance (Ro) 
between the negative side of the high 
voltage source and the electrical chas-
sis. With the Ro installed, measure the 
voltage (V1′) as shown in Figure 4 be-
tween the negative side of the high 
voltage source and the electrical chas-
sis. Calculate the electrical isolation 
resistance (Ri) according to the for-
mula shown. Divide Ri (in ohms) by the 
working voltage of the high voltage 
source (in volts) to obtain the elec-
trical isolation (in ohms/volt). 
S7.6.7
If V2 is greater than V1, in-
sert a known resistance (Ro) between 
the positive side of the high voltage 
source and the electrical chassis. With 
the Ro installed, measure the voltage 
(V2′) as shown in Figure 5 between the 
positive side of the high voltage source 
and the electrical chassis. Calculate 
the electrical isolation resistance (Ri) 
according to the formula shown. Divide 
Ri (in ohms) by the working voltage of 
the high voltage source (in volts) to ob-
tain the electrical isolation (in ohms/ 
volt). 
S7.7
Voltage measurement. For the 
purpose of determining the voltage 
level of the high voltage source speci-
fied in S5.3(b), voltage is measured as 
shown in Figure 1. Voltage Vb is meas-
ured across the two terminals of the 
voltage source. Voltages V1 and V2 are 
measured between the source and the 
electrical chassis. For a high voltage 
source that has an automatic dis-
connect that is physically contained 
within itself, the voltage measurement 
after the test is made from the side of 
the automatic disconnect connected to 
the electric power train or to the rest 
of the electric power train if the high 
voltage source is a component con-
tained in the power train. For a high 
voltage source that has an automatic 
disconnect that is not physically con-
tained within itself, the voltage meas-
urement after the test is made from 
both the high voltage source side of the 
automatic disconnect and from the side 
of the automatic disconnect connected 
to the electric power train or to the 
rest of the electric power train if the 
high voltage source is a component 
contained in the power train. 


## Page 8

1217 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 
S8. Test procedure for on-board elec-
trical isolation monitoring system. Prior 
to any impact test, the requirements of 
S5.4.4 for the on-board electrical isola-
tion monitoring system shall be tested 
using the following procedure. 
(1) The electric energy storage device 
is at the state-of-charge specified in 
S7.1. 
(2) The switch or device that provides 
power from the electric energy storage/ 
conversion system to the propulsion 
system is in the activated position or 
the ready-to-drive position. 
(3) Determine the isolation resist-
ance, Ri, of the high voltage source 
with the electrical isolation moni-
toring system using the procedure out-
lined in S7.6.2 through S7.6.7. 
(4) Insert a resistor with resistance 
Ro equal to or greater than 1/(1/(95 
times the working voltage of the high 
voltage source)¥1/Ri) and less than 1/ 
(1/(100 times the working voltage of the 
high voltage source)¥1/Ri) between the 
positive terminal of the high voltage 
source and the electrical chassis. 
(5) The electrical isolation moni-
toring system indicator shall display a 
warning visible to the driver seated in 
the driver’s designated seating posi-
tion. 
S9 Test methods for physical barrier 
protection from electric shock due to di-
rect and indirect contact with high volt-
age sources. 
S9.1 Test method to evaluate protection 
from direct contact with high voltage 
sources. 
(a) Any parts surrounding the high 
voltage components are opened, dis-
assembled, or removed without the use 
of tools. 
(b) The selected access probe is in-
serted into any gaps or openings of the 
electrical protection barrier with a test 
force of 10 N ± 1 N with the IPXXB 
probe or 1 to 2 N with the IPXXD 
probe. If the probe partly or fully pene-
trates into the electrical protection 
barrier, it is placed in every possible 
position to evaluate contact with high 
voltage live parts. If partial or full pen-
etration into the electrical protection 
barrier occurs with the IPXXB probe, 
the IPXXB probe shall be placed as fol-
lows: starting from the straight posi-
tion, both joints of the test finger are 
rotated progressively through an angle 
of up to 90 degrees with respect to the 
axis of the adjoining section of the test 
finger and are placed in every possible 
position. 
(c) A low voltage supply (of not less 
than 40 V and not more than 50 V) in 
series with a suitable lamp may be con-
nected between the access probe and 
any high voltage live parts inside the 
electrical protection barrier to indi-
cate whether high voltage live parts 
were contacted. 
(d) A mirror or fiberscope may be 
used to inspect whether the access 
probe touches high voltage live parts 
inside the electrical protection barrier. 
(e) 
Protection 
degree 
IPXXD 
or 
IPXXB is verified when the following 
conditions are met: 
(i) The access probe does not touch 
high voltage live parts. The IPXXB ac-
cess probe may be manipulated as spec-
ified in S9.1(b) for evaluating contact 
with high voltage live parts. The meth-
ods specified in S9.1(c) or S9.1(d) may 
be used to aid the evaluation. If meth-
od S9.1(c) is used for verifying protec-
tion degree IPXXB or IPXXD, the lamp 
shall not light up. 
(ii) The stop face of the access probe 
does not fully penetrate into the elec-
trical protection barrier. 
S9.2
Test method to evaluate protec-
tion against indirect contact with high 
voltage sources. At the option of the 
manufacturer, protection against indi-
rect contact with high voltage sources 
shall be determined using the test 
method in subparagraph (a) or subpara-
graph (b). 
(a) Test method using a resistance 
tester. The resistance tester is con-
nected to the measuring points (the 
electrical chassis and any exposed con-
ductive part of electrical protection 
barriers or any two simultaneously 
reachable exposed conductive parts of 
electrical protection barriers that are 
less than 2.5 meters from each other), 
and the resistance is measured using a 
resistance tester that can supply cur-
rent levels of at least 0.2 Amperes with 
a resolution of 0.01 ohms or less. The 
resistance between two exposed con-
ductive parts of electrical protection 
barriers that are less than 2.5 meters 
from each other may be calculated 


## Page 9

1218 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 
using the separately measured resist-
ances of the relevant parts of the elec-
tric path. 
(b) Test method using a DC power sup-
ply, voltmeter and ammeter. 
(1) Connect the DC power supply, 
voltmeter and ammeter to the meas-
uring points (the electrical chassis and 
any exposed conductive part or any 
two simultaneously reachable exposed 
conductive parts that are less than 2.5 
meters from each other) as shown in 
Figure 8. 
(2) Adjust the voltage of the DC 
power supply so that the current flow 
becomes more than 0.2 Amperes. 
(3) Measure the current I and the 
voltage V shown in Figure 8. 
(4) Calculate the resistance R accord-
ing to the formula, R=V/I. 
(5) The resistance between two simul-
taneously reachable exposed conduc-
tive parts of electrical protection bar-
riers that are less than 2.5 meters from 
each other may be calculated using the 
separately measured resistances of the 
relevant parts of the electric path. 
S9.3
Test method to determine voltage 
between exposed conductive parts of elec-
trical protection barriers and the electrical 
chassis and between exposed conductive 
parts of electrical protection barriers. 
(a) Connect the voltmeter to the 
measuring points (exposed conductive 
part of an electrical protection barrier 
and the electrical chassis or any two 
simultaneously reachable exposed con-
ductive parts of electrical protection 
barriers that are less than 2.5 meters 
from each other). 
(b) Measure the voltage. 
(c) The voltage between two simulta-
neously reachable exposed conductive 
parts of electrical protection barriers 
that are less than 2.5 meters from each 
other may be calculated using the sep-
arately measured voltages between the 
relevant electrical protection barriers 
and the electrical chassis. 


## Page 10

1219 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 


## Page 11

1220 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 


## Page 12

1221 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 


## Page 13

1222 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.305 


## Page 14

1223 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.305 


## Page 15

1224 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.401 
[65 FR 57988, Sept. 27, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 60160, Dec. 3, 2001; 69 FR 51399, Aug. 19, 2004; 
72 FR 51972, Sept. 11, 2007; 75 FR 12141, Mar. 15, 2010; 75 FR 33527, June 14, 2010; 76 FR 45448, 
July 29, 2011; 80 FR 2325, Jan. 16, 2015; 82 FR 44960, Sept. 27, 2017; 84 FR 44257, Aug. 23, 2019] 
§ 571.401
Standard No. 401; Interior 
trunk release. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
establishes the requirement for pro-
viding a trunk release mechanism that 
makes it possible for a person trapped 
inside the trunk compartment of a pas-
senger car to escape from the compart-
ment. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars that have a trunk 
compartment. This standard does not 
apply to passenger cars with a back 
door. 
S3. Definitions. 
Back door means a door or door sys-
tem on the back end of a passenger car 
through which cargo can be loaded or 
unloaded. The term includes the hinged 
back door on a hatchback or a station 
wagon. 
Trunk compartment. (a) Means a space 
that: 
(1) Is intended to be used for carrying 
luggage or cargo, 
(2) Is wholly separated from the occu-
pant compartment of a passenger car 
by a permanently attached partition or 
by a fixed or fold-down seat back and/ 
or partition, 
(3) Has a trunk lid, and 
(4) Is large enough so that the three- 
year-old child dummy described in 
Subpart C of Part 572 can be placed in-
side the trunk compartment, and the 
trunk lid can be closed and latched 
with all removable equipment fur-
nished by the passenger car manufac-
turer 
stowed 
in 
accordance 
with 
label(s) on the passenger car or infor-
mation in the passenger car owner’s 
manual, or, if no information is pro-
vided, as located when the passenger 
car is delivered. (Note: For purposes of 
this standard, the Part 572 Subpart C 
test dummy need not be equipped with 
the accelerometers specified in § 572.21.) 
(b) Does not include a sub-compart-
ment within the trunk compartment. 
Trunk lid means a moveable body 
panel that is not designed or intended 
as a passenger car entry point for pas-
sengers and that provides access from 
outside a passenger car to a trunk com-
partment. The term does not include a 
back door or the lid of a storage com-
partment located inside the passenger 
compartment of a passenger car. 
S4. Requirements. 
S4.1 Each passenger car with a trunk 
compartment must have an automatic 
or manual release mechanism inside 
the trunk compartment that unlatches 
the trunk lid. Each trunk release shall 
conform, at the manufacturer’s option, 
to either S4.2(a) and S4.3, or S4.2(b) and 
S4.3. The manufacturer shall select the 
option by the time it certifies the vehi-
cle and may not thereafter select a dif-
ferent option for the vehicle. 
S4.2(a) Each manual release mecha-
nism installed pursuant to S4.1 of this 
standard must include a feature, like 
lighting or phosphorescence, that al-
lows the release mechanism to be eas-
ily seen inside the closed trunk com-
partment. 
(b) Each automatic release mecha-
nism installed pursuant to S4.1 of this 
section must unlatch the trunk lid 


