## Page 1

792 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.207 
[36 FR 22902, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 284, Jan. 8, 1972; 50 FR 12031, Mar. 27, 1985; 60 
FR 13646, Mar. 14, 1995; 60 FR 50134, Sept. 28, 1995; 61 FR 39907, July 31, 1996; 72 FR 5399, June 
27, 2007; 74 FR 35135, July 20, 2009; 74 FR 37176, July 28, 2009; 75 FR 7382, Feb. 19, 2010; 77 FR 
764, Jan. 6, 2012; 87 FR 18588, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.207
Standard No. 207; Seating 
systems. 
S1. Purpose and scope. This standard 
establishes 
requirements 
for 
seats, 
their attachment assemblies, and their 
installation to minimize the possibility 
of their failure by forces acting on 
them as a result of vehicle impact. 
S2. Application. This standard applies 
to passenger cars, multipurpose pas-
senger vehicles, trucks designed to 
carry at least one person, and buses. 
S3. Definitions. Occupant seat means a 
seat that provides at least one des-
ignated seating position. 
Seat adjuster means the part of the 
seat that provides forward and rear-
ward positioning of the seat bench and 
back, and/or rotation around a vertical 
axis, including any fixed portion, such 
as a seat track. In the case of a seat 
equipped with seat adjusters at dif-
ferent levels, the term means the up-
permost seat adjuster. 


## Page 2

793 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.207 
S4. Requirements. 
S4.1
Driver’s seat. Each vehicle with 
manually operated driving controls 
shall have a driver’s designated seating 
position. 
S4.2. General performance requirements. 
When tested in accordance with S5, 
each occupant seat shall withstand the 
following forces, in newtons, except 
for: a side-facing seat; a passenger seat 
on a bus other than a school bus; a pas-
senger seat on a school bus with a 
GVWR greater than 4,536 kilograms 
(10,000 pounds); and, a passenger seat 
on a school bus with a GVWR less than 
or equal to 4,536 kg manufactured be-
fore October 21, 2011. 
(a) In any position to which it can be 
adjusted—20 times the mass of the seat 
in kilograms multiplied by 9.8 applied 
in a forward longitudinal direction; 
(b) In any position to which it can be 
adjusted—20 times the mass of the seat 
in kilograms multiplied by 9.8 applied 
in a rearward longitudinal direction; 
(c) For a seat belt assembly attached 
to the seat—the force specified in para-
graph (a), if it is a forward facing seat, 
or paragraph (b), if it is a rearward fac-
ing seat, in each case applied simulta-
neously with the forces imposed on the 
seat by the seat belt assembly when it 
is loaded in accordance with S4.2 of 
§ 571.210; and 
(d) In its rearmost position—a force 
that produces a 373 newton meters mo-
ment about the seating reference point 
for each designated seating position 
that the seat provides, applied to the 
upper cross-member of the seat back or 
the upper seat back, in a rearward lon-
gitudinal direction for forward-facing 
seats and in a forward longitudinal di-
rection for rearward-facing seats. 
S4.2.1
Seat adjustment. Except for 
vertical movement of nonlocking sus-
pension type occupant seats in trucks 
or buses, each seat shall remain in its 
adjusted position when tested in ac-
cordance with the test procedures spec-
ified in S5. 
S4.3. Restraining device for hinged or 
folding seats or seat backs. Except for a 
passenger seat in a bus or a seat having 
a back that is adjustable only for the 
comfort of its occupants, a hinged or 
folding occupant seat or occupant seat 
back shall— 
(a) Be equipped with a self-locking 
device for restraining the hinged or 
folding seat or seat back, and 
(b) If there are any designated seat-
ing positions or auxiliary seating ac-
commodations behind the seat, either 
immediately to the rear or to the sides, 
be equipped with a control for releasing 
that restraining device. 
S4.3.1
Accessibility of release control. 
If there is a designated seating position 
immediately behind a seat equipped 
with a restraining device, the control 
for releasing the device shall be readily 
accessible to the occupant of the seat 
equipped with the device and, if access 
to the control is required in order to 
exit from the vehicle, to the occupant 
of the designated seating position im-
mediately behind the seat. 
S4.3.2
Performance of restraining de-
vice. 
S4.3.2.1
Static force. (a) Once en-
gaged, the restraining device for a for-
ward-facing seat shall not release or 
fail when a forward longitudinal force, 
in newtons, equal to 20 times the mass 
of the hinged or folding portion of the 
seat in kilograms multiplied by 9.8 is 
applied through the center of gravity 
of that portion of the seat. 
(b) Once engaged, the restraining de-
vice for a rearward-facing seat shall 
not release or fail when a rearward lon-
gitudinal force, in newtons, equal to 8 
times the mass of the hinged or folding 
portion of the seat in kilograms multi-
plied by 9.8 is applied through the cen-
ter of gravity of that portion of the 
seat. 
S4.3.2.2
Acceleration. Once engaged, 
the restraining device shall not release 
or fail when the device is subjected to 
an acceleration of 20 g., in the longitu-
dinal direction opposite to that in 
which the seat folds. 
S4.4
Labeling. Seats not designated 
for occupancy while the vehicle is in 
motion shall be conspicuously labeled 
to that effect. 
S5. Test procedures. 
S5.1
Apply the forces specified in 
S4.2(a) and S4.2(b) as follows: 
S5.1.1
For a seat whose seat back and 
seat bench are attached to the vehicle by 
the same attachments. (a) For a seat 


## Page 3

794 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.207 
whose seat back and seat bench are at-
tached to the vehicle by the same at-
tachments and whose height is adjust-
able, the loads are applied when the 
seat is in its highest adjustment posi-
tion in accordance with the procedure 
or procedures specified in S5.1.1(a)(1), 
S5.1.1(a)(2), or S5.1.1(a)(3), as appro-
priate. 
(1) For a seat whose center of gravity 
is in a horizontal plane that is above 
the 
seat 
adjuster 
or 
that 
passes 
through any part of the adjuster, use, 
at the manufacturer’s option, either 
S5.1.1(b) or, if physically possible, 
S5.1.1(c). 
(2) For a seat specified in S5.1.1(a)(1) 
for which it is not physically possible 
to follow the procedure in S5.1.1(c), use 
S5.1.1(b). 
(3) For a seat whose center of gravity 
is in a horizontal plane that is below 
the seat adjuster, use S5.1.1(c). 
(4) For all other seats whose seat 
back and seat bench are attached to 
the vehicle by the same attachments, 
use S5.1.1(b). 
(b) Secure a strut on each side of the 
seat from a point on the outside of the 
seat frame in the horizontal plane of 
the seat’s center of gravity to a point 
on the frame as far forward as possible 
of the seat anchorages. Between the 
upper ends of the struts attach a rigid 
cross-member, in front of the seat back 
frame for rearward loading and behind 
the seat back frame for forward load-
ing. Apply the force specified by S4.2(a) 
or S4.2(b) horizontally through the 
rigid cross-member as shown in Figure 
1. 
(c) Find ‘‘cg1,’’ the center of gravity 
of the portion of the seat that is above 
the lowest surface of the seat adjuster. 
On each side of the seat, secure a strut 
from a point on the outside of the seat 
frame in the horizontal plane of cg1 to 
a point on the frame as far forward as 
possible of the seat adjusted position. 
Between the upper ends of the struts 
attach a rigid cross-member, in front of 
the seat back frame for rearward load-
ing and behind the seat back frame for 
forward loading. Find ‘‘cg2,’’ the center 
of gravity of the portion of the seat 
that is below the seat adjuster. Apply a 
force horizontally through cg1 equal to 
20 times the weight of the portion of 
the seat represented by cg1, and simul-
taneously apply a force horizontally 
through cg2
equal to 20 times the 
weight of the portion of the seat rep-
resented by cg2. 
S5.1.2
If the seat back and the seat 
bench are attached to the vehicle by 
different attachments, attach to each 
component a fixture capable of trans-
mitting a force to that component. 
Apply forces, in newtons, equal to 20 
times the mass of the seat back in kilo-
grams multiplied by 9.8 m/s2
hori-
zontally through the center of gravity 
of the seat back, as shown in Figure 2 
and apply forces, in newtons, equal to 
20 times the mass of the seat bench in 
kilograms multiplied by 9.8 m/s2 hori-
zontally through the center of gravity 
of the seat bench, as shown in Figure 3. 
S5.2
Develop the moment specified 
in S4.2(d) as shown in Figure 4. 
S5.3
Apply the forces specified in 
S4.3.2.1(a) and (b) to a hinged or folding 
seat as shown in Figure 1 and to a 
hinged or folding seat back as shown in 
Figure 5. 
S5.4
Determine the center of gravity 
of a seat or seat component with all 
cushions and upholstery in place and 
with the head restraint in its fully ex-
tended design position. 


## Page 4

795 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.207 


## Page 5

796 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.207 
[36 FR 22902, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 52 FR 7868, Mar. 13, 1987; 53 FR 30434, Aug. 12, 1988; 
59 FR 37167, July 21, 1994; 60 FR 13647, Mar. 14, 1995; 63 FR 28935, May 27, 1998; 73 FR 62779, 
Oct. 21, 2008; 87 FR 18588, Mar. 30, 2022] 


