## Page 1

1109 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
§ 571.222
Standard No. 222; School bus 
passenger seating and crash protec-
tion. 
S1. Scope. This standard establishes 
occupant protection requirements for 
school bus passenger seating and re-
straining barriers. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce the number of 
deaths and the severity of injuries that 
result from the impact of school bus 
occupants against structures within 
the vehicle during crashes and sudden 
driving maneuvers. 
S3. Application. This standard applies 
to school buses. 
S4. Definitions. Contactable surface 
means any surface within the zone 
specified in S5.3.1.1 that is contactable 
from any direction by the test device 
described in S6.6, except any surface on 
the front of a seat back or restraining 
barrier 76 mm or more below the top of 
the seat back or restraining barrier. 
Fixed occupancy seat means a bench 
seat equipped with Type 2 seat belts 
that has a permanent configuration re-
garding the number of seating posi-
tions on the seat. The number of seat-
ing positions on the bench seat cannot 
be increased or decreased. 
Flexible occupancy seat means a bench 
seat equipped with Type 2 seat belts 
that can be reconfigured so that the 
number of seating positions on the seat 
can change. The seat has a minimum 
occupancy configuration and maximum 
occupancy configuration, and the num-
ber of passengers capable of being car-
ried in the minimum occupancy con-
figuration must differ from the number 
of passengers capable of being carried 
in the maximum occupancy configura-
tion. 
Maximum 
occupancy 
configuration 
means, on a bench seat equipped with 
Type 2 seat belts, an arrangement 
whereby the lap belt portion of the 
Type 2 seat belts is such that the max-
imum number of occupants can be belt-
ed. 
Minimum 
occupancy 
configuration 
means, on a bench seat equipped with 
Type 2 seat belts, an arrangement 
whereby the lap belt portion of the 
Type 2 seat belts is such that the min-
imum number of occupants can be belt-
ed. 
School bus passenger seat means a seat 
in a school bus, other than the driver’s 
seat. 
Seat bench width means the maximum 
transverse width of the bench seat 
cushion. 
Small occupant seating position means 
the center seating position on a flexi-
ble occupancy seat in a maximum oc-
cupancy configuration, if the torso belt 
portion of the Type 2 seat belt is in-
tended to restrain occupants whose di-
mensions range from those of a 50th 
percentile 6 year-old child only to 
those of a 50th percentile 10 year-old 
child and the torso belt anchor point 
cannot achieve a minimum height of 
520 mm above the seating reference 
point, as specified by S4.1.3.2(a) of 49 
CFR 571.210. 
Wheelchair means a wheeled seat 
frame for the support and conveyance 
of a physically disabled person, com-
prised of at least a frame, seat, and 
wheels. 
Wheelchair occupant restraint anchor-
age means the provision for transfer-
ring wheelchair occupant restraint sys-
tem loads to the vehicle structure. 
Wheelchair 
securement 
anchorage 
means the provision for transferring 
wheelchair securement device loads to 
the vehicle structure. 
Wheelchair securement device means a 
strap, webbing or other device used for 
securing a wheelchair to the school 
bus, including all necessary buckles 
and other fasteners. 
S4.1
Determination of the number of 
seating positions and seat belt positions 
(a) The number of seating positions 
considered to be in a bench seat for ve-
hicles manufactured before October 21, 
2011 is expressed by the symbol W, and 
calculated as the seat bench width in 
millimeters divided by 381 and rounded 
to the nearest whole number. 
(b) The number of seating positions 
and the number of Type 1 seat belt po-
sitions considered to be in a bench seat 
for vehicles manufactured on or after 
October 21, 2011 is expressed by the 
symbol W, and calculated as the seat 
bench width in millimeters divided by 
380 and rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
(c) Except as provided in S4.1(d), the 
number of Type 2 seat belt positions on 


## Page 2

1110 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 
a flexible occupancy seat in a min-
imum occupancy configuration or a 
fixed occupancy seat for vehicles man-
ufactured on or after October 21, 2011 is 
expressed by the symbol Y, and cal-
culated as the seat bench width in mil-
limeters divided by 380 and rounded to 
the next lowest whole number. The 
minimum seat bench width for a seat 
equipped with a Type 2 seat belt is 380 
mm. See Table 1 for an illustration. 
(d) A flexible occupancy seat meeting 
the requirements of S4.1(c) may also 
have a maximum occupancy configura-
tion with Y + 1 Type 2 seat belt posi-
tions, if the minimum seat bench width 
for this configuration is Y + 1 times 330 
mm. See Table 1 for an illustration. 
(e) 
A 
flexible 
occupancy 
seat 
equipped with Type 2 seat belts in a 
maximum 
occupancy 
configuration 
may have up to one single small occu-
pant seating position. 
TABLE 1—NUMBER OF SEATING POSITIONS AS A FUNCTION OF SEAT BENCH WIDTH 
Seating configuration 
Seat bench width (mm) 
380–659 
660–759 
760–989 
990–1139 
1140–1319 
Minimum or Fixed Occupancy ......................................
1 
1 
2 
2 
3 
Maximum Occupancy ....................................................
1 
2 
2 
3 
3 
S5. Requirements. 
(a) Large school buses. 
(1) Each school bus manufactured be-
fore October 21, 2011 with a gross vehi-
cle weight rating of more than 4,536 kg 
(10,000 pounds) shall be capable of 
meeting any of the requirements set 
forth under this heading when tested 
under the conditions of S6. However, a 
particular school bus passenger seat 
(i.e., a test specimen) in that weight 
class need not meet further require-
ments after having met S5.1.2 and 
S5.1.5, or having been subjected to ei-
ther S5.1.3, S5.1.4, or S5.3. 
(2) Each school bus manufactured on 
or after October 21, 2011 with a gross 
vehicle weight rating of more than 
4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) shall be capable 
of meeting any of the requirements set 
forth under this heading when tested 
under the conditions of S6 of this 
standard or § 571.210. However, a par-
ticular school bus passenger seat (i.e., 
a test specimen) in that weight class 
need not meet further requirements 
after having met S5.1.2 and S5.1.5, or 
having been subjected to either S5.1.3, 
S5.1.4, S5.1.6 (if applicable), or S5.3. If 
S5.1.6.5.5(b) is applicable, a particular 
test 
specimen 
need 
only 
meet 
S5.1.6.5.5(b)(1) or (2) as part of meeting 
S5.1.6 in its entirety. Each vehicle with 
voluntarily installed Type 1 seat belts 
and seat belt anchorages at W seating 
positions in a bench seat, voluntarily 
installed Type 2 seat belts and seat belt 
anchorages at Y seat belt positions in a 
fixed occupancy seat, or voluntarily in-
stalled Type 2 seat belts and seat belt 
anchorages at Y and Y + 1 seat belt po-
sitions in a flexible occupancy seat, 
shall also meet the requirements of: 
(i) S4.4.3.2 of Standard No. 208 (49 
CFR 571.208); 
(ii) Standard No. 209 (49 CFR 571.209), 
as they apply to school buses; and, 
(iii) Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210) 
as it applies to school buses with a 
gross vehicle weight rating greater 
than 10,000 pounds. 
(b) Small school buses. Each vehicle 
with a gross vehicle weight rating of 
4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) or less shall be 
capable of meeting the following re-
quirements at all seating positions: 
(1)(i) In the case of vehicles manufac-
tured before September 1, 1991, the re-
quirements of §§ 571.208, 571.209, and 
571.210 as they apply to multipurpose 
passenger vehicles; 
(ii) [Reserved] 
(iii) In the case of vehicles manufac-
tured on or after October 21, 2011 the 
requirements of S4.4.3.2 of § 571.208 and 
the requirements of §§ 571.207, 571.209 
and 571.210 as they apply to school 
buses with a gross vehicle weight rat-
ing of 4,536 kg or less; and, 
(2) The requirements of S5.1.2, S5.1.3, 
S5.1.4, S5.1.5, S5.1.6, S5.1.7, S5.3, S5.4 
and S5.5 of this standard. However, the 
requirements of §§ 571.208 and 571.210 
shall be met at Y seat belt positions in 
a fixed occupancy seat, and at Y and Y 


## Page 3

1111 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
+ 1 seat belt positions for a flexible oc-
cupancy seat. A particular school bus 
passenger seat (i.e. a test specimen) in 
that weight class need not meet fur-
ther requirements after having met 
S5.1.2 and S5.1.5, or after having been 
subjected to either S5.1.3, S5.1.4, S5.1.6, 
or S5.3 of this standard or § 571.207, 
§ 571.210 or § 571.225. 
S5.1
Seating requirements. School bus 
passenger seats shall be forward facing. 
S5.1.1 [Reserved] 
S5.1.2
Seat back height, position, and 
surface area. 
(a) For school buses manufactured 
before October 21, 2009, each school bus 
passenger seat must be equipped with a 
seat back that has a vertical height of 
at least 508 mm (20 inches) above the 
seating reference point. Each school 
bus passenger seat must be equipped 
with a seat back that, in the front pro-
jected view, has front surface area 
above the horizontal plane that passes 
through the seating reference point, 
and below the horizontal plane 508 mm 
(20 inches) above the seating reference 
point, of not less than 90 percent of the 
seat bench width in millimeters multi-
plied by 508. 
(b) For school buses manufactured on 
or after October 21, 2009, each school 
bus passenger seat must be equipped 
with a seat back that has a vertical 
height of at least 610 mm (24 inches) 
above the seating reference point. The 
minimum total width of the seat back 
at 610 mm (24 inches) above the seating 
reference point shall be 75 percent of 
the maximum width of the seat bench. 
Each school bus passenger seat must be 
equipped with a seat back that, in the 
front projected view, has front surface 
area above the horizontal plane that 
passes through the seating reference 
point, and below the horizontal plane 
610 mm (24 inches) above the seating 
reference point, of not less than 90 per-
cent of the seat bench width in milli-
meters multiplied by 610. 
S5.1.3
Seat 
performance 
forward. 
When a school bus passenger seat that 
has another seat behind it is subjected 
to the application of force as specified 
in S5.1.3.1 and S5.1.3.2, and subse-
quently, the application of additional 
force to the seat back as specified in 
S5.1.3.3 and S5.1.3.4: 
(a) The seat back force/deflection 
curve shall fall within the zone speci-
fied in Figure 1; 
(b) Seat back deflection shall not ex-
ceed 356 mm; (for determination of (a) 
and (b) the force/deflection curve de-
scribes only the force applied through 
the upper loading bar, and only the for-
ward travel of the pivot attachment 
point of the upper loading bar, meas-
ured from the point at which the ini-
tial application of 44 N of force is at-
tained.) 
(c) The seat shall not deflect by an 
amount such that any part of the seat 
moves to within 102 mm of any part of 
another school bus passenger seat or 
restraining barrier in its originally in-
stalled position; 
(d) The seat shall not separate from 
the vehicle at any attachment point; 
and 
(e) Seat components shall not sepa-
rate at any attachment point. 
S5.1.3.1
Position 
the 
loading 
bar 
specified in S6.5 so that it is laterally 
centered behind the seat back with the 
bar’s longitudinal axis in a transverse 
plane of the vehicle and in any hori-
zontal plane between 102 mm above and 
102 mm below the seating reference 
point of the school bus passenger seat 
behind the test specimen. 
S5.1.3.2
Apply a force of 3,114W new-
tons horizontally in the forward direc-
tion through the loading bar at the 
pivot attachment point. Reach the 
specified load in not less than 5 nor 
more than 30 seconds. 
S5.1.3.3
No sooner than 1.0 second 
after attaining the required force, re-
duce that force to 1,557W newtons and, 
while maintaining the pivot point posi-
tion of the first loading bar at the posi-
tion where the 1,557W newtons is at-
tained, position a second loading bar 
described in S6.5 so that it is laterally 
centered behind the seat back with the 
bar’s longitudinal axis in a transverse 
plane of the vehicle and in the hori-
zontal plane 406 mm above the seating 
reference point of the school bus pas-
senger seat behind the test specimen, 
and move the bar forward against the 
seat back until a force of 44 N has been 
applied. 
S5.1.3.4
Apply additional force hori-
zontally 
in 
the 
forward 
direction 
through the upper bar until 452W joules 


## Page 4

1112 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 
of energy have been absorbed in de-
flecting the seat back (or restraining 
barrier). Apply the additional load in 
not less than 5 seconds nor more than 
30 seconds. Maintain the pivot attach-
ment point in the maximum forward 
travel position for not less than 5 sec-
onds nor more than 10 seconds and re-
lease the load in not less than 5 nor 
more than 30 seconds. (For the deter-
mination of S5.1.3.4 the force/deflection 
curve describes only the force applied 
through the upper loading bar, and the 
forward and rearward travel distance of 
the upper loading bar pivot attachment 
point measured from the position at 
which the initial application of 44 N of 
force is attained.) 
S5.1.4
Seat 
performance 
rearward. 
When a school bus passenger seat that 
has another seat behind it is subjected 
to the application of force as specified 
in S5.1.4.1 and S5.1.4.2: 
(a) Seat back force shall not exceed 
9,786 N; 
(b) Seat back deflection shall not ex-
ceed 254 mm; (for determination of (a) 
and (b) the force/deflection curve de-
scribes only the force applied through 
the loading bar, and only the rearward 
travel of the pivot attachment point of 
the loading bar, measured from the 
point at which the initial application 
of 222 N is attained. 
(c) The seat shall not deflect by an 
amount such that any part of the seat 
moves to within 102 mm of any part of 
another passenger seat in its originally 
installed position; 
(d) The seat shall not separate from 
the vehicle at any attachment point; 
and 
(e) Seat components shall not sepa-
rate at any attachment point. 
S5.1.4.1
Position the loading bar de-
scribed in S6.5 so that it is laterally 
centered forward of the seat back with 
the bar’s longitudinal axis in a trans-
verse plane of the vehicle and in the 
horizontal plane 343 mm above the 
seating reference point of the test spec-
imen, and move the loading bar rear-
ward against the seat back until a 
force of 222 N has been applied. 
S5.1.4.2
Apply additional force hori-
zontally rearward through the loading 
bar until 316W joules (J) of energy has 
been absorbed in deflecting the seat 
back. Apply the additional load in not 
less than 5 seconds nor more than 30 
seconds. Maintain the pivot attach-
ment point in the maximum rearward 
travel position for not less than 5 sec-
onds nor more than 10 seconds and re-
lease the load in not less than 5 sec-
onds nor more than 30 seconds. (For de-
termination of S5.1.4.2 the force deflec-
tion curve describes the force applied 
through the loading bar and the rear-
ward and forward travel distance of the 
loading bar pivot attachment point 
measured from the position at which 
the initial application of 222 N of force 
is attained.) 
S5.1.5
Seat cushion latching and re-
tention. 
(a) School bus passenger seat cush-
ions equipped with attachment devices 
that allow for the seat cushion to be 
removable without tools or to flip up 
must have a self-latching mechanism 
that latches when subjected to the con-
ditions specified in S5.1.5.1. The seat 
cushion shall not separate from the 
seat at any attachment point when 
subjected to the conditions specified in 
S5.1.5.2 after being subjected to the 
conditions of S5.1.5.1. 
(b) School bus passenger seat cush-
ions that are removable only with the 
use of tools shall not separate from the 
seat at any attachment point when 
subjected to the conditions of S5.1.5.2. 
S5.1.5.1
Release the seat cushion 
self-latching mechanism. Lift the seat 
cushion then place the seat cushion 
back in the down position without acti-
vating the self-latching mechanism, if 
possible. Apply a downward force of 216 
N (48.4 pounds) to the center of the seat 
cushion. The downward force shall be 
applied in any period of not less than 1 
and not more than 5 seconds, and main-
tained for 5 seconds. 
S5.1.5.2
Apply an upward force of 5 
times the weight of the seat cushion to 
the center of the bottom of the seat 
cushion. The upward force shall be ap-
plied in any period of not less than 1 
and not more than 5 seconds, and main-
tained for 5 seconds. 
S5.1.6
Quasi-static 
test 
of 
compartmentalization and Type 2 seat belt 
performance. This section applies to 
school buses manufactured on or after 
October 21, 2011 with a gross vehicle 
weight rating expressed in the first col-
umn of Tables 2 through 4, and that are 


## Page 5

1113 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
equipped with Type 2 seat belt assem-
blies. 
(a) Except as provided in S5.1.6(b), 
when tested under the conditions of 
S5.1.6.5.1 through S5.1.6.5.6, the criteria 
specified in S5.1.6.1 and S5.1.6.2 must be 
met. 
(b) A school bus passenger seat that 
does not have another seat behind it is 
not loaded with the upper and lower 
loading bars as specified in S5.1.6.5.2, 
S5.1.6.5.3, and S5.1.6.5.7 and is excluded 
from the requirements of S5.1.6.1(b). 
S5.1.6.1
Displacement limits. In Tables 
2 and 3, AH is the height in millimeters 
of the school bus torso belt anchor 
point specified by S4.1.3.2(a) of Stand-
ard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210) and F is the 
angle of the posterior surface of the 
seat back defined in S5.1.6.3 of this 
standard. 
(a) Any school bus torso belt anchor 
point, as defined in S3 of Standard No. 
210, must not displace horizontally for-
ward from its initial position (when F 
was determined) more than the value 
in millimeters calculated from the fol-
lowing expression in the second column 
of Table 2: 
TABLE 2—TORSO BELT ANCHOR POINT 
DISPLACEMENT LIMIT 
Gross vehicle weight rating 
Displacement limit in millime-
ters 
More than 4,536 kg (10,000 
pounds).
(AH + 100) (tanF + 0.242/ 
cosF) 
Less than or equal to 4,536 
kg (10,000 pounds).
(AH + 100) (tanF + 0.356/ 
cosF) 
(b) A point directly rearward of any 
school bus torso belt anchor point, as 
defined in S3 of Standard No. 210 (49 
CFR 571.210) on the rear facing surface 
of the seat back, must not displace 
horizontally forward from its initial 
position (when F was determined) more 
than the value in millimeters cal-
culated from the following expression 
in the second column of Table 3: 
TABLE 3—SEAT BACK POINT DISPLACEMENT 
LIMIT 
Gross vehicle weight rating 
Displacement limit in millime-
ters 
More than 4,536 kg (10,000 
pounds).
(AH + 100) (tanF + 0.174/ 
cosF) 
Less than or equal to 4,536 
kg (10,000 pounds).
(AH + 100) (tanF + 0.259/ 
cosF) 
S5.1.6.2
Slippage of device used to 
achieve torso belt adjusted height. If the 
torso belt adjusted height, as defined in 
S3 of Standard No. 210 (49 CFR 571.210), 
is achieved without the use of an ad-
justable torso belt anchorage, the ad-
justment device must not slip more 
than 25 mm (1.0 inches) along the web-
bing or guide material upon which it 
moves for the purpose of adjusting the 
torso belt height. 
S5.1.6.3
Angle of the posterior surface 
of a seat back. If the seat back inclina-
tion is adjustable, the seat back is 
placed in the manufacturer’s normal 
design riding position. If such a posi-
tion is not specified, the seat back is 
positioned so it is in the most upright 
position. Position the loading bar spec-
ified in S6.5 of this standard so that it 
is laterally centered behind the seat 
back with the bar’s longitudinal axis in 
a transverse plane of the vehicle in a 
horizontal plane within ±6 mm (0.25 
inches) of the horizontal plane passing 
through the seating reference point 
and move the bar forward against the 
seat back until a force of 44 N (10 
pounds) has been applied. Position a 
second loading bar as described in S6.5 
of this standard so that it is laterally 
centered behind the seat back with the 
bar’s longitudinal axis in a transverse 
plane of the vehicle and in the hori-
zontal plane 406 ±6 mm (16 ±0.25 inches) 
above the seating reference point, and 
move the bar forward against the seat 
back until a force of 44 N (10 pounds) 
has been applied. Determine the angle 
from vertical of a line in the longitu-
dinal vehicle plane that passes through 
the geometric center of the cross-sec-
tion of each cylinder, as shown in Fig-
ure 8. That angle is the angle of the 
posterior surface of the seat back. 
S5.1.6.4
The seat back must absorb 
452W joules of energy when subjected 
to the force specified in S5.1.6.5.7. 
S5.1.6.5
Quasi-static test procedure. 
S5.1.6.5.1
Adjust the seat back as 
specified in S5.1.6.3. Place all torso an-
chor points in their highest position of 
adjustment. If the torso belt adjusted 
height, as defined in S3 of FMVSS No. 
210, is achieved by a method other than 
an adjustable anchor point, initially 
place the torso belt adjusted height at 
its highest position. Then move the ad-
justment device 38 mm (1.5 inches) 


## Page 6

1114 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 
downward with respect to its webbing 
or guide material. 
S5.1.6.5.2
Position the lower loading 
bar specified in S6.5 of this standard so 
that it is laterally centered behind the 
seat back with the bar’s longitudinal 
axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle 
and in any horizontal plane between 
102 mm (4 inches) above and 102 mm (4 
inches) below the seating reference 
point of the school bus passenger seat 
behind the test specimen. Position the 
upper loading bar described in S6.5 so 
that it is laterally centered behind the 
seat back with the bar’s longitudinal 
axis in a transverse plane of the vehicle 
and in the horizontal plane 406 mm (16 
inches) above the seating reference 
point of the school bus passenger seat 
behind the test specimen. 
S5.1.6.5.3
Apply a force of 3,114W N 
(700W pounds) horizontally in the for-
ward direction through the lower load-
ing bar specified at S6.5 at the pivot at-
tachment point. Reach the specified 
load in not less than 5 and not more 
than 30 seconds. No sooner than 1.0 sec-
ond after attaining the required force, 
reduce that force to 1,557W N (350W 
pounds) and maintain the pivot point 
position of the loading bar at the posi-
tion where the 1,557W N (350W pounds) 
is attained until the completion of 
S5.1.6.5.7 of this standard. 
S5.1.6.5.4
Position the body block 
specified in Figure 3 of FMVSS No. 210 
(49 CFR 571.210) under each torso belt 
(between the torso belt and the seat 
back) in the passenger seat and apply a 
preload force of 600 ±50 N (135 ±11 
pounds) on each body block in a for-
ward direction parallel to the longitu-
dinal centerline of the vehicle pursuant 
to the specifications of Standard No. 
210 (49 CFR 571.210). After preload ap-
plication is complete, the origin of the 
203 mm body block radius at any point 
across the 102 mm body block thick-
ness shall lie within the zone defined 
by 
S5.1.6.5.4(a) 
and 
S5.1.6.5.4(b) 
as 
shown in Figure 9: 
(a) At or rearward of a transverse 
vertical plane of the vehicle located 100 
mm longitudinally forward of the seat-
ing reference point. 
(b) Within 75 mm of the horizontal 
plane located midway between the hor-
izontal 
plane 
passing 
through 
the 
school bus torso belt adjusted height, 
specified in S3 of Standard No. 210 (49 
CFR 571.210), and the horizontal plane 
100 mm below the seating reference 
point. 
S5.1.6.5.5
Load application. 
(a) Fixed Occupancy Seat. For school 
buses with the gross vehicle weight 
rating listed in the first column of 
Table 4, if the expression in the second 
column is true, simultaneously apply 
the force listed in the third column to 
each body block. 
TABLE 4—TORSO BODY BLOCK FORCES FOR FIXED OCCUPANCY SEATS 
Gross vehicle weight rating 
True expression 
Applied force 
More than 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) ......
((seat bench width in mm)—(380Y)) ≤25 
mm (1 inch).
3,300 N (742 pounds). 
More than 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) ......
((seat bench width in mm)—(380Y)) >25 
mm (1 inch).
5,000 N (1,124 pounds). 
Less than or equal to 4,536 kg (10,000 
pounds).
((seat bench width in mm)—(380Y)) ≤25 
mm (1 inch).
5,000 N (1,124 pounds). 
Less than or equal to 4,536 kg (10,000 
pounds).
((seat bench width in mm)—(380Y)) >25 
mm (1 inch).
7,500 N (1,686 pounds). 
(b) Flexible Occupancy Seat. 
(1) For school buses with the gross 
vehicle weight rating listed in the first 
column of Table 5 and a bench seat in 
the maximum occupancy configuration 
for a flexible occupancy seat of Y + 1 
seat belt positions as specified in 
S4.1(d), simultaneously apply the force 
listed in the second column of Table 5 
to each body block. 
TABLE 5—TORSO BODY BLOCK FORCES IN 
MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY CONFIGURATION 
Gross vehicle weight rating 
Applied force 
More than 4,536 kg (10,000 pounds) ....
3,300 N (742 
pounds). 
Less than or equal to 4,536 kg (10,000 
pounds).
5,000 N (1,124 
pounds). 
(2) For a flexible occupancy seat in 
the minimum occupant configuration, 


## Page 7

1115 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
apply the forces to each body block as 
specified in S5.1.6.5.5(a). 
S5.1.6.5.6
Reach the specified load in 
not less than 5 and not more than 30 
seconds. While maintaining the load, 
measure the school bus torso belt an-
chor point and seat back point hori-
zontal displacement and then remove 
the body block. 
S5.1.6.5.7
Move the upper bar for-
ward against the seat back until a 
force of 44 N has been applied. Apply an 
additional force horizontally in the for-
ward direction through the upper bar 
until 452W joules of energy have been 
absorbed in deflecting the seat back. 
The maximum travel of the pivot at-
tachment point for the upper loading 
bar shall not exceed 356 mm as meas-
ured from the position at which the 
initial application of 44 N of force is at-
tained and the maximum load must 
stay below the upper boundary of the 
force/deflection zone in Figure 1. Apply 
the additional load in not less than 5 
seconds and not more than 30 seconds. 
Maintain the pivot attachment point 
at the maximum forward travel posi-
tion for not less than 5 seconds, and 
not more than 10 seconds and release 
the load in not less than 5 seconds and 
not more than 30 seconds. (For the de-
termination of S5.1.6.5.7, the energy 
calculation describes only the force ap-
plied through the upper loading bar, 
and the forward and rearward travel 
distance of the upper loading bar pivot 
attachment point measured from the 
position at which the application in 
this section of 44 N of force is at-
tained.) 
S5.1.7
Buckle side length limit. This 
section applies to rear passenger seats 
on school buses manufactured on or 
after October 21, 2011 that are equipped 
with Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assem-
blies. All portions of the buckle/ 
latchplate assembly must remain rear-
ward of the limit plane defined in 
S5.1.7.1 when tested under the condi-
tions of S5.1.7.2. 
S5.1.7.1
Buckle/latchplate limit plane. 
Establish a transverse limit plane 65 
mm from the SgRP that is perpen-
dicular to a transverse plane that 
passes through the SgRP at an angle of 
50 degrees to the horizontal. 
S5.1.7.2
Load application. Insert the 
seat belt latchplate into the seat belt 
buckle. Apply a 20 N load to the buckle/ 
latchplate assembly whose vector is in 
a vertical longitudinal plane. Apply the 
load along the centerline of the web-
bing attached to the latchplate at least 
100mm from the nearest point on the 
latchplate. The load may be applied at 
any angle in the range of 30 to 75 de-
grees from horizontal. 
S5.2
Restraining barrier requirements. 
Each vehicle shall be equipped with a 
restraining barrier forward of any des-
ignated seating position that does not 
have the rear surface of another school 
bus passenger seat within 610 mm of its 
seating 
reference 
point, 
measured 
along a horizontal longitudinal line 
through the seating reference point in 
the forward direction. 
S5.2.1
Barrier-seat 
separation. 
The 
horizontal distance between the re-
straining barrier’s rear surface and the 
seating reference point of the seat in 
front of which the barrier is required 
shall not be more than 610 mm meas-
ured along a horizontal longitudinal 
line through the seating reference 
point in the forward direction. 
S5.2.2
Barrier height, position, and 
rear surface area. The position and rear 
surface area of the restraining barrier 
shall be such that, in a front projected 
view of the bus, each point of the bar-
rier’s perimeter coincides with or lies 
outside of the perimeter of the min-
imum seat back area required by S5.1.2 
for the seat immediately rearward of 
the restraining barrier. 
S5.2.3
Barrier performance forward. 
When force is applied to the restraining 
barrier in the same manner as specified 
in S5.1.3.1 through S5.1.3.4 for seating 
performance tests: 
(a) The restraining barrier force/de-
flection curve shall fall within the zone 
specified in Figure 1; 
(b) Restraining barrier deflection 
shall not exceed 356 mm; (for computa-
tion of (a) and (b) the force/deflection 
curve describes only the force applied 
through the upper loading bar, and 
only the forward travel of the pivot at-
tachment point of the loading bar, 
measured from the point at which the 
initial application of 44 N of force is at-
tained.) 
(c) 
Restraining 
barrier 
deflection 
shall not interfere with normal door 
operation; 


## Page 8

1116 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 
(d) The restraining barrier shall not 
separate from the vehicle at any at-
tachment point; and 
(e) Restraining barrier components 
shall not separate at any attachment 
point. 
S5.3
Impact zone requirements. 
S5.3.1
Head 
protection 
zone. 
Any 
contactable surface of the vehicle with-
in any zone specified in S5.3.1.1 shall 
meet the requirements of S5.3.1.2 and 
S5.3.1.3. However, a surface area that 
has been contacted pursuant to an im-
pact test need not meet further re-
quirements contained in S5.3. 
S5.3.1.1
The head protection zones in 
each vehicle are the spaces in front of 
each school bus passenger seat which 
are not occupied by bus sidewall, win-
dow, or door structure and which, in re-
lation to that seat and its seating ref-
erence point, are enclosed by the fol-
lowing planes; 
(a) Horizontal planes 305 mm and 1016 
mm above the seating reference point; 
(b) A vertical longitudinal plane tan-
gent to the inboard (aisle side) edge of 
the seat; and 
(c) A vertical longitudinal plane 83 
mm inboard of the outboard edge of the 
seat; 
(d) 
Vertical 
transverse 
planes 
through and 762 mm forward of the ref-
erence point. 
S5.3.1.2
Head form impact requirement. 
When any contactable surface of the 
vehicle within the zones specified in 
S5.3.1.1 is impacted from any direction 
at 6.7 m/s by the head form described in 
S6.6, the axial acceleration at the cen-
ter of gravity of the head form shall be 
such that the expression 
1
1
2
1
2
1
2
2 5
t
t
adt
t
t
t
t
−
⎡
⎣
⎢
⎢
⎤
⎦
⎥
⎥
−
∫
.
(
)
shall not exceed 1,000 where ‘‘a’’ is the 
axial acceleration expressed as a mul-
tiple of ‘‘g’’ (the acceleration due to 
gravity), and ‘‘t1’’ and ‘‘t2’’ are any two 
points in time during the impact. 
S5.3.1.3
Head form force distribution. 
When any contactable surface of the 
vehicle within the zones specified in 
S5.3.1.1 is impacted from any direction 
at 6.7 m/s by the head form described in 
S6.6, the energy necessary to deflect 
the impacted material shall be not less 
than 4.5 joules before the force level on 
the head form exceeds 667 N. When any 
contactable surface within such zones 
is impacted by the head form from any 
direction at 1.5 m/s the contact area on 
the head form surface shall be not less 
than 1,935 mm2. 
S5.3.2
Leg protection zone. Any part 
of the seat backs or restraining bar-
riers in the vehicle within any zone 
specified in S5.3.2.1 shall meet the re-
quirements of S5.3.2.2. 
S5.3.2.1
The leg protection zones of 
each vehicle are those parts of the 
school bus passenger seat backs and re-
straining barriers bounded by hori-
zontal planes 305 mm above and 102 mm 
below the seating reference point of the 
school bus passenger seat immediately 
behind the seat back or restraining 
barrier. 
S5.3.2.2
When any point on the rear 
surface of that part of a seat back or 
restraining barrier within any zone 
specified in S5.3.2.1 is impacted from 
any direction at 4.9 m/s by the knee 
form specified in S6.7, the resisting 
force of the impacted material shall 
not exceed 2,669 N and the contact area 
on the knee form surface shall not be 
less than 1,935 mm2. 
S5.4
Each school bus having one or 
more locations designed for carrying a 
person seated in a wheelchair shall 
comply with S5.4.1 through S5.4.4 at 
each such wheelchair location. 
S5.4.1
Wheelchair securement anchor-
ages. Each wheelchair location shall 
have not less than four wheelchair se-
curement anchorages complying with 
S5.4.1.1 through S5.4.1.3. 
S5.4.1.1
Each wheelchair securement 
anchorage shall have a wheelchair se-
curement device complying with S5.4.2 
attached to it. 
S5.4.1.2
The wheelchair securement 
anchorages at each wheelchair location 
shall be situated so that— 
(a) A wheelchair can be secured in a 
forward-facing position. 
(b) The wheelchair can be secured by 
wheelchair securement devices at two 
locations in the front and two loca-
tions in the rear. 
(c) The front wheel of a three- 
wheeled wheelchair can be secured. 


## Page 9

1117 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
S5.4.1.3
Each wheelchair securement 
anchorage shall be capable of with-
standing a force of 13,344 Newtons ap-
plied as specified in paragraphs (a) 
through (d) of this section. When more 
than one securement device share a 
common 
anchorage, 
the 
anchorage 
shall be capable of withstanding a force 
of 13,344 Newtons multiplied by the 
number of securement devices sharing 
that anchorage. 
(a) The initial application force shall 
be applied at an angle of not less than 
30 degrees, but not more than 60 de-
grees, measured from the horizontal. 
(See Figure 4.) 
(b) The horizontal projection of the 
force direction shall be within a hori-
zontal arc of ±45 degrees relative to a 
longitudinal line which has its origin 
at the anchorage location and projects 
rearward 
for 
an 
anchorage 
whose 
wheelchair securement device is in-
tended to secure the front of the wheel-
chair and forward for an anchorage 
whose wheelchair securement device is 
intended to secure the rear of the 
wheelchair. (See Figure 4.) 
(c) The force shall be applied at the 
onset rate of not more than 133,440 
Newtons per second. 
(d) The 13,344 Newton force shall be 
attained in not more than 30 seconds, 
and shall be maintained for 10 seconds. 
S5.4.2
Wheelchair securement devices. 
Each wheelchair securement device 
shall— 
(a) If incorporating webbing or a 
strap— 
(1) Comply with the requirements for 
Type 1 safety belt systems in S4.2, S4.3, 
and S4.4(a) of FMVSS No. 209, Seat Belt 
Assemblies; and 
(2) Provide a means of adjustment to 
remove slack from the device. 
(b) If not incorporating webbing or a 
strap, limit movement of the wheel-
chair through either the equipment de-
sign or a means of adjustment. 
S5.4.3
Wheelchair occupant restraint 
anchorages. 
S5.4.3.1
Each 
wheelchair 
location 
shall have: 
(a) Not less than one anchorage for 
the upper end of the upper torso re-
straint; and 
(b) Not less than two floor anchor-
ages for wheelchair occupant pelvic 
and upper torso restraint. 
S5.4.3.2
Each wheelchair occupant 
restraint floor anchorage shall be capa-
ble of withstanding a force of 13,344 
Newtons applied as specified in para-
graphs (a) through (d). When more than 
one 
wheelchair 
occupant 
restraint 
share a common anchorage, the an-
chorage shall be capable of with-
standing a force of 13,344 Newtons mul-
tiplied by the number of occupant re-
straints sharing that anchorage. 
(a) The initial application force shall 
be applied at an angle of not less than 
45 degrees, but not more than 80 de-
grees, measured from the horizontal. 
(See Figure 5.) 
(b) The horizontal projection of the 
force direction shall be within a hori-
zontal arc of ±45 degrees relative to a 
longitudinal line which has its origin 
at the anchorage and projects forward. 
(See Figure 5.) 
(c) The force shall be applied at an 
onset rate of not more than 133,440 
Newtons per second. 
(d) The 13,344 Newton force shall be 
attained in not more than 30 seconds, 
and shall be maintained for 10 seconds. 
(e) When a wheelchair securement de-
vice and an occupant restraint share a 
common anchorage, including occu-
pant restraint designs that attach the 
occupant restraint to the securement 
device or the wheelchair, the loads 
specified by S5.4.1.3 and S5.4.3.2 shall be 
applied simultaneously, under the con-
ditions specified in S5.4.3.2 (a) and (b). 
(See Figure 6.) 
S5.4.3.3
Each anchorage for a wheel-
chair occupant upper torso restraint 
shall be capable of withstanding a force 
of 6,672 Newtons applied as specified in 
paragraphs (a) through (d). 
(a) The initial application force shall 
be applied at a vertical angle of not 
less than zero degrees, but not more 
than 40 degrees, below a horizontal 
plane which passes through the anchor-
age. (See Figure 7.) 
(b) The projection of the force direc-
tion onto the horizontal plane shall be 
within zero degrees and 45 degrees as 
measured from a longitudinal line with 
its origin at the anchorage and pro-
jecting forward. (See Figure 7.) 
(c) The force shall be applied at the 
onset rate of not more than 66,720 New-
tons per second. 


## Page 10

1118 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 
(d) The 6,672 Newton force shall be at-
tained in not more than 30 seconds, and 
shall be maintained for 10 seconds. 
S5.4.4
Wheelchair occupant restraints. 
(a) Each wheelchair location shall 
have wheelchair occupant pelvic and 
upper torso restraints attached to the 
anchorages required by S5.4.3. 
(b) Each wheelchair occupant re-
straint shall comply with the require-
ments for Type 2 safety belt systems in 
S4.2, S4.3, and S4.4(b) of FMVSS No. 
209, Seat Belt Assemblies. 
S5.5
Labeling. (a) A small occupant 
seating position must be permanently 
and legibly marked or labeled with the 
phrase: ‘‘Do Not Sit In Middle Seat If 
Over Age 10’’. The phrase must be com-
prised of no more than two lines of 
text. The label must be placed on the 
torso belt portion of the Type 2 seat 
belt. It must be plainly visible and eas-
ily readable when the seat belt is in a 
stored position. The distance from the 
top edge of the top line of text to the 
bottom edge of the bottom line of text 
must be at least 35 mm. If the label is 
sewn on, it must be stitched around its 
entire perimeter. 
(b) [Reserved] 
S6. Test conditions. The following con-
ditions apply to the requirements spec-
ified in S5. 
S6.1
Test surface. The bus is at rest 
on a level surface. 
S6.2
Tires. Tires are inflated to the 
pressure specified by the manufacturer 
for the gross vehicle weight rating. 
S6.3
Temperature. The ambient tem-
perature is any level between 0 degrees 
C and 32 degrees C. 
S6.4
Seat back position. If adjustable, 
a seat back is adjusted to its most up-
right position. 
S6.5
Loading bar. The loading bar is 
a rigid cylinder with an outside diame-
ter of 152 mm that has hemispherical 
ends with radii of 76 mm and with a 
surface roughness that does not exceed 
1.6 μm, root mean square. The length of 
the loading bar is 102 mm less than the 
width of the seat back in each test. The 
stroking 
mechanism 
applies 
force 
through a pivot attachment at the cen-
ter point of the loading bar which al-
lows the loading bar to rotate in a hor-
izontal plane 30 degrees in either direc-
tion from the transverse position. 
S6.5.1
A vertical or lateral force of 
17,792 N applied externally through the 
pivot attachment point of the loading 
bar at any position reached during a 
test specified in this standard shall not 
deflect that point more than 25 mm. 
S6.6
Head form. The head form for 
the measurement of acceleration is a 
rigid surface comprised of two hemi-
spherical shapes, with total equivalent 
mass of 5.2 kg. The first of the two 
hemispherical shapes has a diameter of 
166 mm. The second of the two hemi-
spherical shapes has a 50 mm diameter 
and is centered as shown in Figure 3 to 
protrude from the outer surface of the 
first hemispherical shape. The surface 
roughness of the hemispherical shapes 
does not exceed 1.6 μm, root mean 
square. 
S6.6.1
The direction of travel of the 
head form is coincidental with the 
straight 
line 
connecting 
the 
centerpoints of the two spherical outer 
surfaces which constitute the head 
form shape. 
S6.6.2
The 
head 
form 
is 
instru-
mented with an acceleration sensing 
device whose output is recorded in a 
data channel that conforms to the re-
quirements for a 1,000 Hz channel class 
as specified in SAE Recommended 
Practice J211a (1971) (incorporated by 
reference, see § 571.5). The head form 
exhibits no resonant frequency below 
three times the frequency of the chan-
nel class. The axis of the acceleration 
sensing 
device 
coincides 
with 
the 
straight 
line 
connecting 
the 
centerpoints of the two hemispherical 
outer surfaces which constitute the 
head form shape. 
S6.6.3
The head form is guided by a 
stroking device so that the direction of 
travel of the head form is not affected 
by impact with the surface being tested 
at the levels called for in the standard. 
S6.7
Knee form. The knee form for 
measurement of force is a rigid 76 mil-
limeter-diameter 
cylinder, 
with 
an 
equivalent weight of 44 N that has one 
hemispherical end with a 38 mm radius 
forming a contact surface of the knee 
form. The hemispherical surface rough-
ness does not exceed 1.6 μm, root mean 
square. 
S6.7.1
The direction of travel of the 
knee form is coincidental with the cen-
terline of the rigid cylinder. 


## Page 11

1119 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 
S6.7.2
The knee form is instru-
mented with an acceleration sensing 
device whose output is recorded in a 
data channel that conforms to the re-
quirements of a 600 Hz channel class as 
specified in SAE Recommended Prac-
tice J211a (1971) (incorporated by ref-
erence, see § 571.5). The knee form ex-
hibits no resonant frequency below 
three times the frequency of the chan-
nel class. The axis of the acceleration 
sensing device is aligned to measure 
acceleration along the centerline of the 
cylindrical knee form. 
S6.7.3
The knee form is guided by a 
stroking device so that the direction of 
travel of the knee form is not affected 
by impact with the surface being tested 
at the levels called for in the standard. 
S6.8
The head form, knee form, and 
contactable surfaces are clean and dry 
during impact testing. 


## Page 12

1120 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 


## Page 13

1121 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 


## Page 14

1122 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 


## Page 15

1123 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 


## Page 16

1124 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 


## Page 17

1125 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.222 


## Page 18

1126 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.222 


## Page 19

1127 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.223 
[41 FR 4018, Jan. 28, 1976] 
EDITORIAL NOTE: For FEDERAL REGISTER citations affecting § 571.222, see the List of CFR 
Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at 
www.govinfo.gov. 
§ 571.223
Standard No. 223; Rear im-
pact guards. 
S1. Scope. This standard specifies re-
quirements for rear impact guards for 
trailers and semitrailers. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce the number of 
deaths and serious injuries that occur 
when light duty vehicles collide with 
the 
rear 
end 
of 
trailers 
and 
semitrailers. 
S3. Application. This standard applies 
to rear impact guards for trailers and 
semitrailers subject to Federal Motor 
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 224, Rear 
Impact Protection (§ 571.224). 
S4. Definitions. 
In this standard, directional terms 
such as bottom, center, height, hori-
zontal, longitudinal, transverse, and rear 
refer to directions relative to the vehi-
cle orientation when the guard is ori-
ented as if it were installed on a vehi-
cle according to the installation in-
structions in S5.5 of this section. 


