## Page 1

1059 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.216 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2012 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1. 
(c) For purposes of complying with 
S13.1.3, a manufacturer may count a 
vehicle if it— 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2013 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1 or S13.1.2. 
(d) For purposes of complying with 
S13.1.4, a manufacturer may count a 
vehicle if it— 
(1) Is manufactured on or after Octo-
ber 11, 2007 but before September 1, 2014 
and, 
(2) Is not counted toward compliance 
with S13.1.1, S13.1.2, or S13.1.3. 
(e) For the purposes of calculating 
average annual production of vehicles 
for each manufacturer and the number 
of vehicles manufactured by each man-
ufacturer, each vehicle that is excluded 
from having to meet the applicable re-
quirement is not counted. 
[72 FR 51957, Sept. 11, 2007, as amended at 73 
FR 32483, June 9, 2008; 75 FR 12139, Mar. 15, 
2010; 77 FR 767, Jan. 6, 2012; 76 FR 52884, Aug. 
24, 2011; 77 FR 70914, Nov. 28, 2012; 85 FR 85535, 
Dec. 29, 2020; 87 FR 39310, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 
18597, Mar. 30, 2022] 
§ 571.215
[Reserved] 
§ 571.216
Standard No. 216; Roof crush 
resistance; Applicable unless a vehi-
cle is certified to § 571.216a. 
S1. Scope. This standard establishes 
strength requirements for the pas-
senger compartment roof. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce deaths and inju-
ries due to the crushing of the roof into 
the occupant compartment in rollover 
crashes. 
S3. Application. (a) This standard ap-
plies to passenger cars, and to multi-
purpose passenger vehicles, trucks and 
buses with a GVWR of 2,722 kilograms 
(6,000 pounds) or less. However, it does 
not apply to— 
(a) School buses; 
(b) Vehicles that conform to the roll-
over test requirements (S5.3) of Stand-
ard No. 208 (§ 571.208) by means that re-
quire no action by vehicle occupants; 
(c) Convertibles, except for optional 
compliance with the standard as an al-
ternative to the rollover test require-
ments in S5.3 of Standard No. 208; or 
(d) Vehicles certified to comply with 
§ 571.216a. 
S4. Definitions. 
Altered roof means the replacement 
roof on a motor vehicle whose original 
roof has been removed, in part or in 
total, and replaced by a roof that is 
higher than the original roof. The re-
placement roof on a motor vehicle 
whose original roof has been replaced, 
in whole or in part, by a roof that con-
sists of glazing materials, such as those 
in T-tops and sunroofs, and is located 
at the level of the original roof, is not 
considered to be an altered roof. 
Raised roof means, with respect to a 
roof which includes an area that pro-
trudes above the surrounding exterior 
roof structure, that protruding area of 
the roof. 
Roof over the front seat area means the 
portion of the roof, including wind-
shield trim, forward of a transverse 
vertical plane passing through a point 
162 mm rearward of the SgRP of the 
rearmost front outboard seating posi-
tion. 
Windshield trim means molding of any 
material between the windshield glaz-
ing and the exterior roof surface, in-
cluding material that covers a part of 
either the windshield glazing or exte-
rior roof surface. 
S5. Requirements. Subject to S5.1, 
when the test device described in S6 is 
used to apply a force to either side of 
the forward edge of a vehicle’s roof in 
accordance with the procedures of S7, 
the lower surface of the test device 
must not move more than 127 millime-
ters. The applied force in Newtons is 
equal to 1.5 times the unloaded vehicle 
weight of the vehicle, measured in 
kilograms and multiplied by 9.8, but 
does not exceed 22,240 Newtons for pas-
senger cars. Both the left and right 
front portions of the vehicle’s roof 
structure must be capable of meeting 
the requirements. A particular vehicle 
need not meet further requirements 
after being tested at one location. 
S5.1 For multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles, trucks and buses that have a 
raised roof or altered roof, manufactur-
ers have the option of using the test 


## Page 2

1060 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.216 
procedures of S8 instead of the proce-
dures of S7 until October 25, 2000. The 
option of using the test procedures of 
S8 ceases to be available on that date. 
S6. Test device. The test device is a 
rigid unyielding block whose lower sur-
face is a flat rectangle measuring 762 
millimeters by 1,829 millimeters. 
S7. Test procedure. Each vehicle must 
be capable of meeting the requirements 
of S5 when tested in accordance with 
the procedure in S7.1 through 7.6. 
S7.1 Place the sills or the chassis 
frame of the vehicle on a rigid hori-
zontal surface, fix the vehicle rigidly in 
position, close all windows, close and 
lock all doors, and secure any convert-
ible top or removable roof structure in 
place over the occupant compartment. 
Remove roof racks or other non-struc-
tural components. 
S7.2 Orient the test device as shown 
in Figure 1 of this section, so that— 
(a) Its longitudinal axis is at a for-
ward angle (in side view) of 5 degrees 
below the horizontal, and is parallel to 
the vertical plane through the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline; 
(b) Its transverse axis is at an out-
board angle, in the front view projec-
tion, of 25 degrees below the horizontal. 
S7.3 Maintaining 
the 
orientation 
specified in S7.2— 
(a) Lower the test device until it ini-
tially makes contact with the roof of 
the vehicle. 
(b) Position the test device so that— 
(1) The longitudinal centerline on its 
lower surface is on the initial point of 
contact, or on the center of the initial 
contact area, with the roof; and 
(2) Except as specified in S7.4, the 
midpoint of the forward edge of the 
lower surface of the test device is with-
in 10 mm of the transverse vertical 
plane 
254 
mm 
forward 
of 
the 
forwardmost point on the exterior sur-
face of the roof, including windshield 
trim, that lies in the longitudinal 
vertical plane passing through the ve-
hicle’s longitudinal centerline. 
S7.4 If the vehicle being tested is a 
multipurpose passenger vehicle, truck, 
or bus that has a raised roof or altered 
roof, and the initial contact point of 
the test device is on the raised roof or 
altered roof to the rear of the roof over 
the front seat area, the plate is posi-
tioned so that the midpoint of the rear-
ward edge of the lower surface of the 
test device is within 10 mm of the 
transverse vertical plane located at the 
rear of the roof over the front seat 
area. 
S7.5 Apply force so that the test de-
vice moves in a downward direction 
perpendicular to the lower surface of 
the test device at a rate of not more 
than 13 millimeters per second until 
reaching the force level specified in S5. 
Guide the test device so that through-
out the test it moves, without rotation, 
in a straight line with its lower surface 
oriented as specified in S7.2(a) and 
S7.2(b). Complete the test within 120 
seconds. 
S7.6 Measure the distance that the 
test device moved, i.e., the distance be-
tween the original location of the 
lower surface of the test device and its 
location as the force level specified in 
S5 is reached. 
S8 Alternate test procedure for multi-
purpose passenger vehicles, trucks and 
buses that have a raised roof or altered 
roof manufactured until October 25, 2000 
(see S5.1). Each vehicle shall be capable 
of meeting the requirements of S5 
when tested in accordance with the fol-
lowing procedure. 
S8.1 Place the sills or the chassis 
frame of the vehicle on a rigid hori-
zontal surface, fix the vehicle rigidly in 
position, close all windows, close and 
lock all doors, and secure any convert-
ible top or removable roof structure in 
place over the passenger compartment. 
S8.2 Orient the test device as shown 
in Figure 2, so that— 
(a) Its longitudinal axis is at a for-
ward angle (side view) of 5° below the 
horizontal, and is parallel to the 
vertical plane through the vehicle’s 
longitudinal centerline; 
(b) Its lateral axis is at a lateral out-
board angle, in the front view projec-
tion, of 25° below the horizontal; 
(c) Its lower surface is tangent to the 
surface of the vehicle; and 
(d) The initial contact point, or cen-
ter of the initial contact area, is on the 
longitudinal centerline of the lower 
surface of the test device and 254 milli-
meters from the forwardmost point of 
that centerline. 
S8.3
Apply force in a downward di-
rection perpendicular to the lower sur-
face of the test device at a rate of not 


## Page 3

1061 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.216 
more than 13 millimeters per second 
until reaching a force in Newtons of 11⁄2 
times the unloaded vehicle weight of 
the tested vehicle, measured in kilo-
grams and multiplied by 9.8. Complete 
the test within 120 seconds. Guide the 
test device so that throughout the test 
it 
moves, 
without 
rotation, 
in 
a 
straight line with its lower surface ori-
ented as specified in S8.2(a) through 
S8.2(d). 
S8.4
Measure the distance that the 
test device moves, i.e., the distance be-
tween the original location of the 
lower surface of the test device and its 
location as the force level specified in 
S8.3 is reached. 


## Page 4

1062 
49 CFR Ch. V (10–1–24 Edition) 
§ 571.216 
FIGURE 1 TO § 571.216 


## Page 5

1063 
Nat’l Highway Traffic Safety Admin., DOT 
§ 571.216a 
FIGURE 2 TO § 571.216 
[36 FR 23300, Dec. 8, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 21930, Aug. 14, 1973; 56 FR 15517, Apr. 17, 1991; 
58 FR 5633, Jan. 22, 1993; 60 FR 13647, Mar. 14, 1995; 64 FR 22578, Apr. 27, 1999; 65 FR 4581, Jan. 
31, 2000; 74 FR 22384, May 12, 2009] 
§ 571.216a
Standard 
No. 
216a; 
Roof 
crush resistance; Upgraded stand-
ard. 
S1. Scope. This standard establishes 
strength requirements for the pas-
senger compartment roof. 
S2. Purpose. The purpose of this 
standard is to reduce deaths and inju-
ries due to the crushing of the roof into 
the occupant compartment in rollover 
crashes. 
S3
Application and selection of compli-
ance options. 
S3.1
Application. 
(a) This standard applies to passenger 
cars, and to multipurpose passenger ve-
hicles, trucks designed to carry at 
least one person, and buses with a 
GVWR 
of 
4,536 
kilograms 
(10,000 
pounds) or less, according to the imple-
mentation schedule specified in S8 and 
S9 of this section. However, it does not 
apply to— 
(1) School buses; 
(2) Vehicles that conform to the roll-
over test requirements (S5.3) of Stand-
ard No. 208 (§ 571.208) by means that re-
quire no action by vehicle occupants; 
(3) Convertibles, except for optional 
compliance with the standard as an al-
ternative to the rollover test require-
ment (S5.3) of Standard No. 208; or 
(4) Trucks built in two or more 
stages with a GVWR greater than 2,722 
kilograms (6,000 pounds) not built 
using a chassis cab or using an incom-
plete vehicle with a full exterior van 
body. 
(b) At the option of the manufac-
turer, vehicles within either of the fol-
lowing categories may comply with the 
roof crush requirements (S4) of Stand-
ard No. 220 (§ 571.220) instead of the re-
quirements of this standard: 
(1) Vehicles built in two or more 
stages, other than vehicles built using 
a chassis cab; 
(2) Vehicles with a GVWR greater 
than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) that 
have an altered roof as defined by S4 of 
this section. 
(c) Manufacturers may comply with 
the standard in this § 571.216a as an al-
ternative to § 571.216. 


